NATIONAL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE,
K.R. NAGAR, KOVILPATTI
(An Autonomous Institution - Affiliated to
Anna University, Chennai)
STRATEGIC PLAN
(2020-2025)
Index
Sl.No Content Page No
1 Summary of the Institute 1
2 Institute Path Travelled 2
3 Institute Highlights 3
4 IQAC Objectives & Activities 5
5 Timed Vision & Short-Term Goals (2022- 6
2023)
6 Action Plan 8
7 Academic Process 11
8 Vision , Mission & Quality Policy 14
9 NEC R&D Policy 16
10 KRIC Innovation Policy 20
11 Governing Council 23
12 Looking Ahead 24
Summary of the Institute
Technical education is crucial for the nation because it develops industrial
production, creates jobs, and promotes technology-all of which enhance people's
standard of living. After more than four decades of devoted service in the technical
education sector, National Engineering College has made a reputation for itself as a
provider of excellent professional education. Most of the objectives outlined in the college's
first five-year (2015-20) strategic plan were accomplished through its development and
effective implementation. The college planned to update the strategy plan for 2020-2025
in order to further achieve new heights in this fiercely competitive, dynamic global context
and to satisfy the expectations of the stakeholders. After the first strategic plan was
implemented, a thorough SWOT analysis was carried out. Following multiple discussions
and an extensive study, the new strategic plan has been developed.
The COVID-19 pandemic and other unprecedented issues have been brought about
by the shifting global landscape, which has also presented new prospects for higher
education in the new millennium. In order to turn students into high quality professionals,
teachers must showcase their abilities using a variety of innovative teaching strategies.
Through innovative teaching, research, and innovation that has a quantifiable societal
impact, professors and students are expected to make a significant contribution to the
modern higher education system. Furthermore, partnerships with overseas universities,
research institutions, and the industry are becoming more and more significant.
Accordingly, the new strategic plan is to provide a broad range of facilities to address the
present issues in every area, with a particular emphasis on research and development,
teaching and learning, and cooperative activities on a national and worldwide scale.
It helps to prepare students for a career where they can apply scientific and
technical principles to create solutions. Technical education focuses on providing industrial
training and imparting knowledge for specific purposes that help to build or improve one's
career. The institute perspective plan for 2020 - 2025 is designed to systematically evolve
the academic, research and development, administration and infrastructure development
plans for the institute.
Institute Path Travelled
National Engineering College, the most prominent landmark of Kovilpatti, has been the
crowning glory of this Matchless City of Matches. Its celebrated 'Son of the Soil'
Thiru.K.Ramasamy transformed the entire social and cultural scenario in and around this
small town by establishing the excellent educational institution popularly referred as
"NEC". By wielding the magical wand of social commitment and munificence this
foresighted philanthropist transformed a strip of barren land into a magnificent academic
complex that has been consistently producing infallible engineers of high competence right
from the day of its inception in 1984. This much-acclaimed temple of erudition was
established under the self-financing scheme sanctioned by the Government of Tamilnadu
G.O. No. 939 dated 20.07.1984 by the National Educational and Charitable Trust, Kovilpatti,
Thoothukudi district.
INSTITUTE HIGHLIGHTS
IQAC Objectives and Activities
Timed vision:
To become a most preferred academic institution in Tamil Nadu for high quality
technical education, research and innovation.
Short term goals for 2022-2023:
Timed vision:
To become a most preferred academic institution in Tamil Nadu for high quality
technical education, research and innovation.
Short term goals for 2022-2023:
ACTION PLAN
Sl. Strategy Action Plan Implementation
No.
1. Attracting high Offering scholarships at different levels PD & FS
cutoff students Supporting financially to convert their idea into PD & FS
product as startups
Supporting financially to present their product PD & FS
in national/international level
Supporting financially their research/ project PD & FS
work to be published in reputed journals
Providing higher level training PD & FS
Industry institute cell may be established to PD & FS
enhance consultancy services
Planning for student exchange programs PD & FS
Fulfilling the dream job/higher level placements Direct
Flexibility in Teaching Learning process Direct
Motivating the students for self-learning during Direct
college hours
Motivating the students to undergo internships Direct
in IITs/IISc.
2. Facilities Buddy system may be established in all PD & FS
provided to the departments
students Reducing the number of working hours PD
Bus facility may be started from 4.30 PM itself PD
Allowing mobile usage for academic process PD
Saturday classes may be conducted through only PD
online
Supplementary exams may be conducted PD
Setting flexible educational process for different Direct
level of students
Equal opportunities may be given to all Direct
department students for placement. Non IT
students should be trained for IT jobs
Core company placements may be improved. Direct
Developing Independent NEC-App Direct
3. Amenities Luxurious environment may be facilitated in PD & FS
provided to the hostels (AC rooms, washing machines, maximum
students 2 numbers/ rooms in hostels I, etc.). Room size
may be increased in hostel II.
Stalls for Juices at minimum cost - Hostel in and PD & FS
around colleges
Guest rooms may be provided to parents PD & FS
Bus facility can be extended up to Madurai PD & FS
Indoor stadium may be built to facilitate the PD & FS
sports events
Modernizing the first-year class rooms FS
Transportation facility to Kovilpatti may be PD
provided to the hostellers during Friday evening
and week end days.
Hostel canteen may be available up to 11 PM. PD
Availability of all the goods at 24/7 hours PD
All government holidays may be declared as PD
holidays
Hostel library and computer centers should be Direct
functioned with student committee
4. Perception Brand building PD & FS
Public relation cell may be established PD & FS
Conducting state level science and technology PD & FS
exhibition to school students
Providing career guidance programme for +2 PD & FS
students by experts
Honoring the parents, school teachers and PD & FS
students who got higher level placements
State level sport competition may be conducted PD & FS
Adopting schools PD & FS
Help desks for public PD & FS
Honoring entrepreneurs PD & FS
Attractive and informative College Website FS
Popularizing our college name in local news FS
channel and district newspaper in and around
our district
Facilitating Community Radio in college FS
Effective dissemination through social media FS
network
Keeping display boards to disseminate the FS
college events
Conducting a greater number of social FS
awareness programs
Conducting at least one national level technical FS
contest
Call letter day may be conducted to placed PD
students
Effective Counseling may be provided to needy Direct
students
Making friendly environment for the students to Direct
enjoy the learning
Conducting online tests to +2 students to get Direct
high marks
Treating the students as professionals by Direct
teaching, non-teaching and supporting staff
members
5. Alumni Network Establishing alumni regional center's PD & FS
Region wise alumni meeting may be conducted PD & FS
every year.
Ted talks by alumnus may be arranged Direct
periodically
Alumni mentoring for needy students Direct
Industrial visit to alumni entrepreneurs' Direct
organizations
Solving industrial problems of alumni through Direct
our students
Note: PD - Policy Decision; FS-Financial Support
ACADEMIC PROCESS
Academic course plan
After the subject allocation, course planning is to be finalized in course committee with course
instructors well in advance before the start of semester by referring previous year documents.
Minutes of the meeting should be recorded properly.
If necessary, appropriate corrections on course outcome statements and blooms levels may be
carried out in the course committee meeting, record it in the minutes and communicated to Dean
(Academics) and Controller of Examination through HOD and the Principal.
Guidelines for preparing the course planning
 Based on the Bloom's taxonomy level of the course outcomes, content delivery
methods to be chosen.
 Course outcomes with the level of K3 and above, to practice minimum any two of
the active learning process, online tutorial, assignment, case studies etc.
 Course outcomes with the level of K2, in addition to test, any one of the other
assessments may be considered to ensure the basic concepts understanding. Use
google forms to conduct quiz, MCQs etc, on key topics.
 For each course outcome, schedule for conducting other assessments should be
planned.
 Assignments should not be either copy-type from other assignments or
reproduction of the existing materials and have to confirm the learning level of the
students. It may be of class assignment, individual topic or group assignment.
 Tutorial problems should be of think and do level and/or open-ended problems
type.
 Open book test, case studies, etc., are also for higher level CO assessments.
 Appropriate, possible, manageable and optimum number of assessment methods
should be chosen. The number of assessment methods for course outcomes should
be proportional to the level of the course outcomes.
 Target and threshold should be meaningful. It should reflect the significance and
hardness of course outcomes.
Implementing and Monitoring
 Immediately after the formation of LMS of the courses, each course instructor
should share it with co-instructors, HOD, and Dean (FD).
 HODs should monitor the progress of academic activities periodically and ensure
that the content delivery methods and assessments methods against each course
outcome are correctly followed as per the plan.
 Immediately after the completion of delivery for each course outcome and before
the start of next course outcome, the other assessments for the particular course
outcome should be completed.
 Immediately after the evaluation of internal assessment tests, evaluation of the
particular course outcomes should be completed and declared to students along
with internal marks earned. (I test - CO1, II test - CO2,3, III test - CO4,5)
 Before the last working day, evaluation of the all-course outcomes should be
completed and internal marks should be declared to students.
 Within one week of the last working day, by forming department level committee to
audit the LMS to verify the quality of the process and to check for all the necessary
documents are in the order as per the course file check list.
Content Delivery Methods
Passive Learning Methods
Lecture, Lecture with Discussion, Quiz, Viva, Demonstration, Tutorial, Assignments (New
Situation), Mini Project, Group Discussion, Brain Storming, Asynchronous Discussion, Case
studies, Debate, Major Project, Product, Journal Publication, etc.
Active Learning Methods
Think-pair-share, Formulate-Share-Create-Revise, Mud cards, Recitation/Ticking, Gallery
walk, Problem based learning, Project based learning, Blended learning, Jigsaw learning,
etc.
Assessment Methods
Controlled Test, Quiz, Viva, Notes taking, Tutorial, Assignments, Laboratory, Mini project,
uncontrolled test, Group Discussion, Brain Storming, Case studies, Tutorials, Mini/Major
Project, Seminar presentation, Project, Product, Journal Publication, etc.
Guidelines for choosing content delivery and assessment process
K Appropriate Content Delivery Appropriate Assessment
S.No
Level Methods Methods
1 K1 Lecture, Quiz Controlled Test, Quiz
K Appropriate Content Delivery Appropriate Assessment
S.No
Level Methods Methods
Lecture with Discussion, Viva,
2 K2 Viva, Notes taking, Controlled Test
Demonstration
Lecture with Discussion, Tutorial,
Tutorial, Assignments, Laboratory,
3 K3 Assignments (New Situation), Think-
Controlled Test (to some extend)
pair-share.
Tutorial, Assignments (New Situation), Tutorial, Assignments, Laboratory,
4 K4 Mini Project, Group Discussion, Brain Mini project, uncontrolled test,
Storming, Asynchronous Discussion Group Discussion, Brain Storming
Assignments, Case studies, Brain
Case studies, Tutorials, Mini/Major
5 K5 Storming, Debate, Tutorials, Major
Project, Seminar presentation
Project
Project, Product, Journal
6 K6 Project, Product, Journal Publication
Publication
Vision, Mission & Quality Policy
Institute Vision
Transforming lives through quality education and research with human values.
Institute Mission
 To maintain excellent infrastructure and highly qualified and dedicated faculty.
 To provide a conducive environment with an ambiance of humanity, wisdom,
creativity, and team spirit.
 To promote the values of ethical behavior and commitment to the society.
 To partner with academic, industrial, and government entities to attain
collaborative research
Short- and Long-Term Goals of the Institute:
Short Term
 Respecting college students as budding engineers and scientists embarking
adventure towards innovation and invention.
 Nurturing freedom of idea and expression and inspiring a experience of quest.
 To bring 100 % career settlement for students in Core, Product based and IT
industries.
 To put together college students for careers throughout an extensive variety of
science, engineering, mathematics, and technology disciplines.
 To enhance the self-learning skills among the students.
 To tie-up with national and international industries to create industry-ready
students
Long Term:
 To enrich the potentials of training programme for grooming the technical and soft
skills for the students.
 To implement an efficient system that creates the scholars to induce involvement in
improving professional and entrepreneurship skills with social and environmental
importance
Quality Policy:
NEC is committed to the culture of quality through the process of continual
monitoring and improvement by developing a student centric approach which provides a
conducive teaching-learning and research environment with the ambience of creativity,
wisdom and team spirit to orient the talents of students with human values for making a
positive contribution to society. This would be achieved by meeting legal, statutory and
interested parties' requirements.
Research and Development Policy
National Engineering College (NEC) was established in 1984 with a vision,
"Transforming lives through quality education and research with human values". The
Institute has developed excellent facilities, both in terms of infrastructure and
scholastics. NEC encourages faculty members and students to undertake sponsored
research projects with a commitment to serve the society. Research and development are
carried in several areas like Computation, Energy, Environment, Image Processing,
Materials, Manufacturing, Nanotechnology, Telecommunication, and Sensor Networks and
simulation studies. Six departments of NEC have been recognized as research centers by
Anna University, Chennai.
Regulations relating to the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) and MS (By
Research) in the related Faculties of Engineering and in Science and Humanities of NEC
are as per the Regulations for Ph.D and MS (By Research) prescribed by the Anna
University, Chennai.
1. Research and Development (R&D) Centre:
To achieve high quality research ambience in the Institute, a Research & Development
Centre is set up with the objective of developing the strategic plan for scientific and
technology research and ensuring the implementation of such plans. The R&D Centre
provides specialized administrative and managerial support for the operation of
academic research, sponsored research, consultancy and other R&D related activities of
the Institute.
2. Academic Research
2.1. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) and Master of Science(M.S) by research
i. A candidate should register at NEC research Centre on getting provisional
registration letter from Anna University, Chennai.
ii. Ph.D./M.S candidates should present their research progress before the review
committee constituted by the concerned department once in six months.
iii. Faculty members with Ph.D. must get supervisorship from Anna University, Chennai.
iv. Maximum of 8 Scholars are permitted to do research under a supervisor.
v. The Research scholars are encouraged to publish their research works in reputed SCI
indexed journals after getting the approval from their supervisors.
vi. Research Supervisors are advised to submit the research articles to the journal only
after checking the Plagiarism.
2.2. Institution Fellowship:
The enrollment of full-time research scholars plays a vital role in enhancing the
quality of research in the institute. In support of our vision and to strengthen the quality of
research and development in all our research centers, Institution Fellowship Scheme is
implemented exclusively for full-time Ph.D. Scholars. The institutional research fellowship
of Rs.10,000/- per month is given to the Ph.D. Scholars. The institutional fellow has to
abide by the Research policies of NEC.
2.3. Incentives for Publications:
In order to motivate the faculty members towards research and publishing their
research findings in reputed journals with impact factor, incentives are given to faculty
members.
2.4 SCI Journal
Publications with Impact Factor (ClarivateI ncentive Amount (Rs.)
Analytics)
1.5 and above 10,000
0.5 and above and less than 1.5 5,000
Less than 0.5 but more than 0.1 2,000
 Patents
For granted patent, Rs, 10,000/- (Equivalent to one high-impact factor journal
publication incentive) may be given as an incentive to the inventor (faculty).
 Scopus Publication
Faculty members with Scopus indexed publications may be given an incentive of Rs.
3000/- per publication.
3. Sponsored Research
3.1. Recruitment of a project staff:
i. All the appointments related to projects (Junior research fellow/Senior research
fellow/Research Assistants/Institutional Fellow) will be contractual and on the basis
of consolidated monthly emoluments prescribed by the Sponsoring Agency or the
institute.
ii. The tenure of appointment of a project staff will be for the duration of the project.
iii. The Project staff shall execute a contract agreement of non-judicial stamp paper at
Rs.100/- at the time of joining.
iv. The selection of project staff shall normally be made as per the guidelines provided by
sponsoring agency and with the approval of Principal through Dean (R&D)
v. The project staff may be allowed to register for Full- time MS (By Research)/Ph.D
programme, if he/she fulfills all the requirements prescribed by the Institute.
3.2. Salary and Allowances:
i. A separate book of accounts shall be maintained for each project.
ii. Overhead charge of the project will be transferred to the 'Funded Project' account.
iii. Accounts for sponsored projects shall be maintained under five broad budget heads.
They are: Salary, Equipment, Contingency & Consumables, Travel and Institutional
Charges (Overhead). Minor adjustment in approved budget heads may be permitted by
the Principal without violating the norms of funding agency.
iv. Principal Investigators (PIs) shall arrange to maintain Procurement-cum- purchase
Registers and Stock/Asset Register.
v. Cash advance shall be drawn in the name of PI/Co-PI of the project.
vi. All expenditures shall normally be made within the proposed date of completion of the
project. Exception may be permitted with the consent of the sponsor.
3.3. Incentives for Projects Funded by Sponsoring Agency:
In order to promote research environment and activity of the Institute and
motivating the researchers, incentives are given to the faculty members, who have
Projects sponsored by sponsoring agencies. 50% of the Overhead charge defined by the
Agency is given as Incentive to the PI and Co-PI of the project. If no overhead is specified
in the Project Fund, 2% of the amount received is given as Incentive to the PI and Co-PI of
the project.
4. Consultancy and related Services:
To promote research-oriented consultancy works, to effectively utilize the
equipment's, to impart practical knowledge and to generate revenue, each and every
department is encouraged by the Institute to actively take up consultancy woks with
Industries. The revenue generate for such consultancy works are shared as per the
following details.
Category Activity Institutes Share as a Faculty Share as a %
% of consultancy cost of consultancy cost
I Projects requiring use of 60 Percent 40 Percent
Laboratory and other
facilities of the Institute
II Projects that do not use 40 Percent 60 Percent
Institutes Facilities
5. Faculty Development & Research Interactions:
To get expertise in specific domain and promote the research interest, NEC is
providing full financial help (Registration/course Fee and TA/DA) to faculty members
attending International Conference/Seminar in abroad and in India, GIAN Courses and
Research Workshop/Industry Know How. A faculty can avail these benefits once in an
academic year. TA/DA and Honorarium is allowed for the experts coming to NEC for
Research Interactions and Collaborative Research works.
POLICY & PROCEDURE FOR SEED MONEY SCHEME
Introduction:
A robust research component provides an excellent opportunity for teachers to keep
abreast of developments in their respective research areas of interest.
Seed Money Scheme (SMS) has been initiated at NEC to provide research grants to
motivate faculty members to stimulate competitive research in their areas of interest. SMS
will develop the faculty members to apply major research proposals for funding from
National and International agencies.
Objectives:
• To facilitate faculty members in starting a research program that has the potential to
attract funds from external agencies.
• To promote inter-faculty collaboration in emerging research areas.
• To increase the number of publications in peer-review journals.
• To promote the culture of product development.
• To attract the young talented people.
Awards:
• Seed money grant of a maximum of 10 lakhs.
• The maximum duration of funding is 2 years.
KRIC Innovation Policy
National Engineering College (NEC), Kovilpatti is a self-financed autonomous
engineering institute affiliated to Anna University, Chennai offering various programmes
under engineering and technology. The faculty, staffs and students of NEC are always
committed towards knowledge generation in emerging thrust areas. K.R. Innovation Centre
(KRIC), NEC Business Incubator motivates students, faculty and staff to do activities related
to innovation and entrepreneurship through the implementation of NEC Innovation and
Startup Policy 2020. This Policy highlights the intellectual property ownership
management, technology licensing and commercialization, thus enabling the creation of a
robust innovation and Startup ecosystem in the college and also in the southern region of
Tamilnadu.
National Engineering College (NEC), Kovilpatti envisions to become a top Innovation
and Startup (I&S) creation & supporting Institute among all private Colleges in India by
2025. Our Institute has developed and implemented an Innovation & Startup
Entrepreneurship strategy and policy in order to integrate the entrepreneurial startup
ventures and innovation activities across students and faculty members of various
departments, alumnus, outside entrepreneurs, thus enabling free flow of communication
among all stakeholders. Entrepreneurship promotion and development is the major
objective of KRIC. To facilitate development of an entrepreneurial ecosystem in the
organization, specific objectives and associated performance indicators are defined here in
our innovation and startup policy document. These guidelines will also help emphasize that
startup entrepreneurship is all about creating an innovative business venture, which is
financially successful in the long run. In our region of the state, innovation is still not the
main focus of engineering education. In order to achieve the cultural and attitudinal shift,
we ensure that 'Innovation and Startup' culture is the primary motive of our Institution.
Therefore, this policy framework and guidelines are the need of the hour. These guidelines
will enable our Institution Business Incubator to actively support our faculty, staff,
students, alumnus and outside entrepreneurs to participate in Innovation and
Entrepreneurship (I&E) related activities, thus creating more Jobs in our local region.
TEAM AND AUTONOMY FOR BUSINESS INCUBATOR
We have very carefully chosen our NEC Business Incubation and Institution
Innovation Council (IIC) team as they not only understand the I&S businesses but also in
sync with our vision, mission and objectives. Resource mobilization plan has been worked
out at our institute for supporting pre-incubation, incubation and IIC activities. For
expediting the decision making, hierarchical barriers have been minimized and individual
autonomy and ownership of initiatives have been permitted for the Incubation
management team. Micro action plan has also been developed by our team members to
accomplish these policy objectives.
FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
Investment in entrepreneurial activities is a part of our institutional financial
strategy. Minimum 1% fund of our total annual budget of the institution is set to be
allocated every year for funding startups and Innovation related activities by allocating a
separate 'NEC Startup Innovation fund". Apart from this we have formed a strategy to raise
funds from diverse sources to reduce dependency on the public funding. We already have
New Generation Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre (NEWGen IEDC)
fund for 5 years through National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development
Board (NSTEDB), Department of Science and Technology (DST), New Delhi and we also
have a committed Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) fund from local industry to
support our technology incubator for next 10 years, under CSR as per section 135 of the
company act 2013.
Governing Council
Looking Ahead
The developed strategic planning document will act as a guide from management all
the way down to the staff level and as a monitoring tool for self-evaluation at different
levels. Periodic reviews are required in order to evaluate the degree of accomplishment in
relation to the plan and implement any necessary corrective measures. It is hoped that the
objectives outlined in this report can be accomplished with perseverance, participation,
oversight, and assistance.