This website uses cookies to collect information to improve your browsing experience. Please review our Privacy Statement for more information.
Use our website feedback form
About About Us Learn about our history, traditions, community and leadership. Leadership Administrative Offices Board of Trustees Facts and Figures Spirit and Traditions Auburn Today
Learn about our history, traditions, community and leadership.
Admissions Become a Student Begin your Auburn journey here. Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Scholarships and Aid Student Experience Find Your Community
Begin your Auburn journey here.
Academics Academics Find programs, tools and resources for academic success. Colleges Undergraduate Majors Graduate Programs Office of the Provost Academic Resources Academic Calendar
Find programs, tools and resources for academic success.
Office of the Provost
Research Research & Innovation Explore the real-world solutions we help discover. University Research Research Magazine Innovation & Partnerships Centers & Institutes The Park at Auburn Alabama Agricultural Experiment Station
Explore the real-world solutions we help discover.
The Park at Auburn
Alabama Agricultural Experiment Station
Extension and Outreach Extension and Outreach Discover practical knowledge and research-driven solutions. Alabama Cooperative Extension System University Outreach
Discover practical knowledge and research-driven solutions.
Alabama Cooperative Extension System
Office of the Provost
The Park at Auburn
Alabama Agricultural Experiment Station
Alabama Cooperative Extension System
We Attract the Best and the Brightest
You've worked hard and done your research. Now, it's time to take that first step toward joining the Auburn Family. We're here to guide you through the admissions process, including helping you understand requirements, important deadlines and how to submit your application.
Check out the deadlines and requirements for applying to Auburn, and review all you need to know to make applying stress-free. You’ll apply as a freshman applicant if you are a current high school senior or recent high school graduate who has never enrolled in college.
You can submit your admissions application online at auburn.edu/admissions or through the Common Application . Choose the application you're most comfortable with; there's no preference given to either application. We highly encourage you to submit the application you start, filling out both applications may delay your application from being processed. A completed application file includes a submitted admissions application, an application fee or fee waiver, your high school transcript and official ACT/SAT scores.
We encourage all documents to be uploaded in the application or sent electronically through the following services: Parchment, National Clearing House, SCOIR or Scribbles. If you are unable to send documents through these services, don't hesitate to get in touch with your high school counselor, admission advisor or mail the official copy to the address below:
Admission Processing 1550 East Glenn Ave, Suite 1210 Auburn, AL 36849
The personal data that the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and the Graduate School collect may be shared internally with academic units, Alumni Affairs and other school officials with a legitimate educational interest. Data may also be shared with third-party partners according to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), with which we have contracted to perform services for the institution.
By federal law, the submission of certain information at the time of application for admission is optional. These items include social security number, ethnicity, date of birth and sex. At Auburn University, this information is used for reporting, record keeping and data validation.
All applicants for admission to Auburn University are required to disclose on the admission application prior criminal conduct and prior educational misconduct. The University reviews all applications in which a student discloses misconduct at an educational institution and/or prior criminal conduct to determine whether the applicant's admission is in the best interest of the University. Affirmative disclosures do not result in automatic denial of admission.
Applicants who fail to provide complete and accurate responses to the conduct section of the admission application may be denied admission, or if already admitted, may have their admission rescinded.
New and returning applications for admission to Auburn University indicating a record of previous misconduct at an educational institution or criminal conduct will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the University’s Disclosure Review Committee.
Applicants will be required to provide additional information to the University for consideration. This information may include, but is not limited to, copies of criminal disposition records, background checks and screenings and educational and disciplinary records. Applicants may also be asked to provide information releases. All information requested from the applicant must be received by the University at least 30 days before the first day of the semester. The committee reviews applicants whose files are complete and meet all other admissions criteria. The University shall make a determination within 45 days of receiving all requested information.
The University may deny an applicant admission if, upon reviewing all available information, it is determined that denying admission or re-admission to the applicant is in the best interest of the University.
Waiting for admissions decisions is always exciting! Get updates on the application process and your status here:
Auburn University is a test-preferred institution; we recommend that students take and submit official ACT and SAT scores for admissions. Freshman admission is evaluated comprehensively, considering demonstrated academic achievement in high school coursework, course rigor and grade trends in addition to student engagement and service. While we encourage students to submit standardized test scores, they are not required to be considered for admission or scholarships.
Applying Without a Test Score
Applicants with at least a 3.6 GPA and unable to test will be reviewed holistically through our test-optional pathway. Any valedictorian or salutatorian from an accredited Alabama school with 50 or more graduates will also qualify for admission. For more information about our test-optional policy, please visit our test-optional website .
For summer and fall 2026, admission decisions will be released in rounds. Early action decisions include rounds 1-4. For scholarship consideration, you must have a complete applicant file by any of the early action decision rounds. The regular decision deadline is February 1. Early action decisions are non-binding. To be considered, you must have a complete application file by the materials received date listed below.
Required Materials Received By
Early Action Round 4
To be considered for an admission decision, you must have a complete application file consisting of the items below:
Submitted Admission Application .
Paid the $50 non-refundable application fee.*
Official ACT/SAT test scores sent from the testing agency.**
Uploaded copy of your high school transcript(s).
Minimum 3.6 cumulative GPA.***
Submitted Admission Application .
Paid the $50 non-refundable application fee.*
Uploaded copy of your high school transcript(s).
*In both the Common App and Auburn’s admission application, you will select the fee waiver option if you qualify. Auburn University does not require any additional documentation.
**Starting Fall 2024, Auburn University will accept the ACT Superscore Report. Auburn will calculate a superscore for the SAT and any individual score reports from ACT. Only your best testing result will be used for admissions and scholarship consideration.
***If your GPA is not on a 4-point weighted scale or on a 100-point scale, Auburn will recalculate your GPA. If the recalculated GPA is less than a 3.6 GPA, official test scores will be required to receive an admissions decision.
Auburn University reviews freshman applications utilizing a comprehensive review process. Each application is given personal consideration that values academic achievements, unique qualities and potential contributions to the Auburn community. The admissions committee will evaluate multiple factors in their review, but academic performance in high school is the primary predictor of success. The review will also include assessing high school coursework, particularly core subjects, grade trends, grades in relevant disciplines and overall GPA, among other factors.
As a guideline, the middle 50% profile for students enrolling in Fall 2024 was:
The ideal candidate will have achieved an academic GPA at or above our middle 50% GPA, demonstrated academic excellence and participated in challenging coursework during high school.
Early Action - Preliminary Academic Review We select our freshman class through an evaluation that includes a preliminary academic review of an applicant’s academic performance. Our initial review focuses on the rigor of classes, GPA and test scores as well as a deeper dive into a whole student. We consider the mix of in-state and out-of-state students and as a land-grant institution, our mission is to serve Alabama residents. Academic factors in our review include:
ACT or SAT test scores for students applying with a test score.
Your 9th-11th grade point average, including weighted and unweighted.
Grades earned in core curriculum courses.
Pattern of grades over time. Marked improvement in academic performance as demonstrated by academic GPA and the quality of coursework completed or in progress.
The number of college preparatory, Advanced, Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), honors, gifted and transferable college courses completed, and achievement in those courses.
Academic performance relative to other applicants at their high school and the learning opportunities available in their high school.
Outstanding performance in one or more specific subject areas.
Academic area of interest.
Regular Decision - Comprehensive Review We select our freshman class through a comprehensive review process.
Understanding Auburn University's Admissions Process
Auburn University uses a comprehensive review to identify exceptional students who demonstrate the greatest potential for success and embody the Auburn Creed. We look for students who excel academically and demonstrate strong commitments to leadership, service, personal growth and a genuine connection to Auburn — truly reflecting the values of the Auburn Creed. Our review considers a wide range of your experiences and achievements. Here is what we consider:
Academic Rigor and Performance
We care about your academic journey and achievements. Here's how we evaluate this:
Course Rigor, Academic Challenge: We consider the difficulty of your courses, including honors, Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB) and dual enrollment classes.
Standardized Test Scores and GPA: Auburn University is a test-preferred institution; your scores on standardized tests (such as the SAT or ACT) and your overall GPA are important. Applicants with at least a 3.6 GPA who cannot secure a test will be considered for admission under our test-optional pathway.
Grade Trends and Class Rank: We look at how your grades have improved over time and your rank in your graduating class.
Academic Area of Interest: Your chosen major or field of study and any relevant coursework or experience in that area.
Being active in your community is key to the Auburn experience. We assess your:
School and Community Activities: Participation in clubs, sports and other extracurricular activities, especially leadership roles.
Service Projects and Community Involvement: Volunteering and participating in community projects.
Awards and Recognition: Honors and awards you’ve received in academics, sports, arts or service.
Achievement in Intellectual and Creative Pursuits: Success in academic projects, research and creative work.
Work Experience and Summer Activities: Job experience, internships and summer programs.
Personal Statement - Optional
Your personal statement is your chance to show us who you are. In your statement, you can share:
Personal Experiences and Journey: Important life events, challenges you’ve overcome and personal growth.
Aspirations and Motivations: Your future goals, why you want to go to college and why you’re interested in Auburn.
Community Contributions: How you've contributed to your community.
Character and Values: What makes you unique, your values and your perspective on life.
Connection to Auburn: We also want to know about your connection with Auburn University. We value students who show a genuine interest in becoming part of the Auburn Family.
Optional Academic Letters of Support: You can also include optional Academic Letters of Support to strengthen your application.
Auburn University strongly encourages all applicants to submit official ACT or SAT scores. For Fall 2026 admission only, a very limited number of exceptionally qualified applicants with at least a 3.6 GPA may be considered without test scores.
Beginning Fall 2027, all first-year applicants will be required to submit ACT or SAT scores. Vist our test-optional page for more information.
Your official test scores are required for a completed application. Official test scores must be submitted directly from the testing agency.
Auburn University School codes are:
Starting Fall 2024, Auburn University will accept the ACT Superscore Report. Auburn will calculate a superscore for the SAT and any individual score reports from ACT. Only your best testing result will be used for admissions and scholarship consideration.
Below are important dates and deadlines for undergraduate admissions.
Early Action Admission Round 1
FAFSA available at gov/fafsa
Early Action Admission Round 2
Early Action Admission Round 3
Final Early Action Admission Deadline
Must have complete applicant file by this date for scholarship consideration. Early-February decision released
ACT/SAT Test Score Received Deadline
Scores received after this date will not count for scholarship consideration
Early March decision released
Financial Aid and Scholarship Priority Deadline
Spring Semester Application Deadlines
July 1, 2026: Application for admission available.
November 1, 2026: Admission Application deadline
December 1, 2026: Enrollment Deposit deadline
*The FAFSA is the only form a student is required to complete to be considered for student assistance from any of the Title IV HEA programs, except for information needed to ensure the student’s eligibility for such assistance (e.g., information needed to complete verification or to demonstrate compliance with the student eligibility provisions of the HEA and the regulations). Additional information, if requested, will be listed on the student’s AU Access My Finances page after we receive the results of the FAFSA. For additional information, visit auburn.edu/finaid .
For detailed information on admission policies and procedures for all applicant types, please visit the following page:
Key Dates and Deadlines
Auburn allows a space and a place for whatever talent or gift that students bring to the table.
Distance and Continuing Education
Office of Information Technology
Campus Safety and Security