Deakin 2030
Ideas to Impact
Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Originally released December 2020
We acknowledge the Traditional Custodians
of our lands and waterways.
We pay respects to Elders past, present
and emerging.
Deakin campuses are built on the traditional
lands of the Wadawurrung people of the
Geelong region, the Wurundjeri and Boon
Wurrung people of the greater Melbourne
region, and the Gunditjmara people of
Western Victoria.
Deakin University CRICOS Code Provider Code: 00113B
What makes us Deakin
Deakin University was born of a powerful idea: 'to provide tertiary education
at university level to all qualified persons whether within or outside Victoria
by means of distance education programs' (Deakin University Act 1974). Ever
since, our ideas have shaped our University and made a positive difference to
our graduates and communities.
The impact we create, and the progress we support, all stem from great
ideas. We are known as creators and innovators, developing our ideas
through exploration, testing and challenge, and translating and applying
them to deliver impact. We nurture ideas, embrace change and are
innovative in everything we do.
Deakin is an environment where ideas are pursued with passion and where
they can be challenged freely. One of our most important roles is as critic and
conscience: academic freedom must remain a foundation principle to ensure
we can explore ideas without fear or intellectual or political constraint.
As we look to the next decade, we will continue to harness the power of our
ideas to help transform the way we live and think, to enhance the social,
cultural, economic and environmental wellbeing of our communities.
We will build on the strengths that have enabled our success and that of
our students and partners. We value diversity and seek to include those
that have the talent and aspiration to succeed irrespective of background,
providing access to education through innovative pathways, online learning,
and campus locations in regional, metropolitan and international contexts.
We will remain true to these commitments despite the significant challenges
that continue to arise in the external environment. We are a resilient
organisation; we are also optimistic and bold. Since 1974, we have responded
to each challenge by adapting and emerging stronger.
While external conditions change, our strategy provides the stability to guide
our decisions. If we succeed, Deakin will remain Australia's most progressive
university, working to realise the best future for its communities.
Deakin University aims to be a catalyst
for positive change for the individuals
and the communities it serves. It aspires
to be recognised as Australia's most
progressive university.
Preamble to the Deakin University Act 2009
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 3
We excel in both education and research
We are ranked well above average in the sector for both
education and research - a dual strength that is rare among
Australian universities. This 'balanced excellence' is central to
our identity.
We value both excellence and equity
Our pursuit of excellence in education and research is
accompanied by a commitment to greater access for aspiring
students who face additional barriers. We deliver progress across
society, prioritising equity and opportunity; we are not defined
by those we exclude, but by the opportunities we create.
We are leaders in digital capability
Deakin is a leader in the innovative use of digital technology
- digital is in our DNA. Our investment in digital capabilities
has amplified our reputation and extended our reach. These
capabilities will become even more important as students expect
greater personalisation in their courses and as data-enriched
technologies and artificial intelligence become the background to
all our lives. We will continue to be human-centric and ethical in
creating and managing our digital platforms.
We are agile and responsive to community need
Deakin is responsive to changes outside the University. We
address the evolving educational and career needs of our
students, our research and innovation portfolio meets demand
and creates opportunities, and our campuses are open to
partnerships to deliver social, cultural and economic benefits.
We excel in fusing the capabilities of our digital and physical
campuses to achieve the best possible outcomes.
4 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Indigenous knowledges and ideas inform our future
Deakin is committed to Reconciliation and Treaty, advancing the
educational aspirations of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
Peoples, and ensuring Indigenous knowledges are widely
recognised and woven into the fabric of Australian life. All our
endeavours will reflect on Australia's full history and seek to
build an inclusive future.
We deliver impact locally and globally
Great universities build bridges; they strive for connection and
broaden their understanding of diverse peoples and places. Our
social contract with Australia extends to our ability to teach,
learn from and collaborate with the best minds in the world.
Our ability to influence at a local level is shaped by longstanding
international networks and partnerships, especially in the
Indo-Pacific region, giving us a globally informed perspective.
We will sustain our networks and build new ones to remain an
internationally connected university.
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 5
Ambition
Our innovation and excellence in both education and research generate ideas
that transform lives and communities. We will be Australia's most progressive and
responsive university, leading in blending digital capability with our distinctive
campus precincts. We will leverage strong partnerships to maximise the social,
cultural and economic impact we deliver regionally, nationally and globally.
Values
Our values guide our actions and decisions, shaping how we act, collectively
and individually.
• Excellent - We strive for excellence in all aspects of our work
• Inclusive - We value diversity, embrace difference, respect and welcome all
• Brave - We make bold decisions, demonstrate courage and ambition, and we
support personal responsibility and accountability
• Dynamic - We are innovative and entrepreneurial, solving problems with
creativity and flexibility
• Sustainable - We care about our shared future, integrating economic,
environmental and social dimensions of sustainability in all we do
• Ethical - We conduct our business with the highest standards of professional
behaviour and integrity
6 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Deakin 2030 - Strategic Plan on a Page
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 7
What we do - nurturing a
vibrant ideas ecosystem
Our education, research and innovation activities combine to
create a rich and complex ideas ecosystem that delivers lasting
value for our students and communities.
Our students thrive in an environment where creativity and ideas
are valued. Our learning and teaching and student experiences
prepare graduates with the skills and creative mindset they need
to succeed in their lives and careers.
The ideas we generate through our research and creative
endeavours, and the innovative application of those ideas,
ensure that Deakin is at the forefront of solving some of the
world's greatest social, economic and environmental challenges.
Addressing these challenges requires effective transdisciplinary
and multidisciplinary teams and our ability to build and sustain
such teams gives us an advantage.
Innovation - the ability to identify, adapt and sustainably
implement great ideas that make a difference - is a defining
characteristic of Deakin and one that benefits all our students
and staff. We will use our strength in innovation to build
entrepreneurship skills into our core education and research
training programs.
All our activities will be framed by five Impact Themes that will
define our priorities and guide our decisions. We will make the
most of our campus precincts and our digital capabilities to
maximise our impact.
Painting opposite:
'Cultural Tree of Knowledge' by Deanne Gilson
8 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Education and Employability
Students will always be the heart of our University
We offer outstanding education founded on the experience we
create for our learners and guided by graduate outcomes for
successful lives and careers. Deakin is an educational leader - a
status confirmed by national rankings for good teaching, generic
skills development, graduate qualities and student satisfaction.
We will continue to innovate by reshaping our approach to
courses, learning and teaching and enhancing the experience of
our students.
Deakin offers education relevant to contemporary learners
Whether a career starter, career advancer or career changer,
Deakin will offer learning experiences that challenge, inspire and
equip students to achieve their goals. The quality and variety
of opportunities our students enjoy draw on our strengths in
education and research and are informed by partnerships with
industry, governments, community groups and our alumni.
Employability is embedded in all our programs
Employability describes the set of understandings and
capabilities that equips graduates to excel in their chosen careers
and to contribute widely to the life of their community. We
help our students to realise their goals in a rapidly changing and
increasingly digital world that requires a combination of specialist
and transferable skills, entrepreneurialism and a recognition of
the importance of lifelong learning.
Deakin is an inclusive educator
We welcome learners from diverse backgrounds who broaden
our horizons and enrich our learning. We support our students to
be globally connected, contributing to Australia and the world.
We work with partners, both local and international, to enable
flexible and non-traditional pathways into a Deakin education.
10 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
To achieve our aspiration we will focus on six areas:
f Student experience. Provide an environment for learning
that welcomes, supports and enables diverse learners, and
that empowers them as our partners - placing them at the
centre of our thinking.
f Student outcomes. Empower students to develop and realise
their goals, fostering their agency and success, growing
their independence and setting firm foundations for lifelong
learning.
f Employability and career-relevant skills. Co-design courses
with industry partners, integrating workplace experiences,
ensuring relevance and adaptability in a world of changing
needs and opportunities.
f Digital delivery and innovation. Lead in the delivery of
outstanding online education and integrated courses that
are accessible and seamlessly blend modes of learning and
experiences on campus, online and in workplaces.
f Continuous development of new and revised courses.
Our curriculum will anticipate changing social and economic
needs, and employ Open Education resources and practices
to reduce barriers and enrich learning. We will lead the
design and delivery of high-quality, flexible programs,
available from undergraduate level through to postgraduate.
f Innovative international education partnerships. Design
and implement distinctive, hybrid transnational education
partnerships that provide lasting value for students, partners
and Deakin.
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 11
Research and Innovation
We undertake globally significant research that benefits our
communities through the innovative translation of our ideas
into new services, products, policies and capabilities
Building on our growing capability and capacity, we will create
an environment where our researchers can flourish, and ideas
can be rapidly translated into social, economic and wider impact.
We have significant success to build on. Since 2010 we have
substantially increased the quality and scale of our research and
creative endeavours. In parallel, we have grown our innovation
and commercialisation outcomes to be among the leading
universities nationally.
Partnerships are vital for our success
We will enhance both our research quality and its translation to
impact through mutually beneficial partnerships with industry,
government and communities. We will make sure we are easy
and transparent to work with.
We need balanced capability in both discovery and the
innovative application of ideas
We will pursue both discovery-driven research and the
application of its results. Overall, we will emphasise the
translation, application and commercialisation of our ideas to
create positive impact for our partners and society. Deakin aims
to generate greater social and economic benefits as rapidly as
possible, including through new businesses and jobs.
12 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
To achieve our aspiration we will focus on six areas:
f Excellence in research and innovation. Pursue distinctive,
quality discovery and applied research, scholarship and
creative endeavours that generate globally recognised new
knowledge, thinking and products.
f Realising talent. Employ tailored researcher development
to create more opportunities for success across discovery,
innovation and industry pathways.
f Partnerships for impact. Prioritise strategic local and global
academic and industry partnerships to grow a vibrant ideas
ecosystem that extends our capability for delivering mutual
benefits.
f Industry precincts. Strengthen our industry precincts by
increasing the number of co-located partners, the output of
our industrial pilot and scale-up production and research and
development facilities, and leverage the opportunities our
diverse campuses provide.
f Innovation to impact. Accelerate the translation of ideas into
new policy, knowledge, products and services via streamlined
pathways, including for commercialisation and industry
engagement.
f Research transformation. Transform support, systems
and connectivity for a new way of working that enables
researchers to focus on research and innovation that delivers
demonstrable impact.
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 13
14 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Impact Themes
As a catalyst for positive change, we are a socially caring
institution that aims to help create a better future.
Our core activities of Education and Employability and Research
and Innovation define what we do. Our Impact Themes focus our
activities to where our ideas will make the biggest difference.
The five interconnected themes are important to society, reflect
the greatest and most urgent challenges and align with our
strengths in education and research across all our disciplines.
They provide opportunities to build strategic local and
international partnerships for the common good and will shape
our education programs to ensure we adapt to future workforce
needs.
These Impact Themes are our compass, helping us navigate
opportunities and decisions.
Interconnected Impact Themes
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 15
Advancing society, culture and the economy
f Inform and shape the development of a more effective and resilient
education system.
f Build the business capabilities necessary for a strong, sustainable,
diverse and resilient economy.
f Strengthen democratic and civil society through the application
of critical ideas and the cultural and economic inclusion of
disadvantaged and marginalised groups in society.
f Engage with Australia's rich heritage, including Indigenous
knowledges, and support the aspirations of Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander Peoples.
f Support and develop Australia's cultural, artistic, creative and
sporting industries.
Building safe and secure communities
f Deliver innovative technological, social and community-based
solutions that support community resilience, safety and wellbeing.
f Develop and apply innovative technology to enhance safety and
security, including intelligent systems, cyber security and human-
centric digital solutions.
f Design solutions to secure supply chains and transportation.
f Develop innovative solutions that support Australia's security
and defence.
Creating smarter technologies
f Advance the sophistication, capability and ethical use of technologies
such as artificial intelligence, sensing systems, robotics and
automation and new materials.
f Develop the skills and technologies to underpin a sustainable
economic future for Australia in which new technologies align
creative problem-solving and productivity to deliver progress, not
just change.
f Use smart technology capabilities to support progress in each of the
other Impact Themes.
16 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Enabling a sustainable world
f Understand, protect and manage land, air and marine ecosystems.
f Advance the circular economy through innovative resource
management technologies that are sustainable and scalable.
f Support organisations and communities to be more socially,
environmentally and economically sustainable.
f Support the transition to sustainable energy solutions by developing
and applying new technologies for energy generation, storage and
transport.
Improving health and wellbeing
f Develop and deliver solutions that improve health care for our
communities, focusing on:
f sustainable models of health care delivery
f integrated and sustainable models of prevention
f whole-of-population health care outcomes that reduce
health disparities.
f Enhance the capabilities required for sustainable health care reform
through:
f participant-centred approaches to health care evaluation and
delivery
f evidence-led and transformed practice
f innovative digital and technological solutions.
f Work with global partners to leverage our capabilities and to adapt
approaches to support the delivery of sustainable health care
internationally.
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 17
Our communities
Deakin is defined by the people who make up our University
community: our students, our staff and our friends, alumni and
partners. We are inclusive and value diversity. Our progressive
culture will encourage individuals and organisations to choose
Deakin for study, for their career, or as a trusted partner.
We understand the importance of working closely with the
communities located alongside and near our campuses,
delivering tangible benefits to local residents and businesses.
Students are the heart of Deakin
We welcome our students as our partners to create successful
learning, rewarding experiences and engaging and inclusive
communities. Our students develop effective participation and
leadership through formal and informal learning, peer support
and university life.
Our staff can build successful and fulfilling careers
We invest in our people, building our capacity to learn, adapt and
grow. A priority is developing our digital fluency and boosting
cross-university collaboration. We will:
f build a culture of trust and transparency with high levels of
personal integrity
f develop and support inspiring leaders who set the tone for
our shared goals, empower performance and innovation and
foster a positive work environment
f empower staff to learn, develop, excel and inspire others
f understand and support the different career stages, providing
opportunities for staff to raise their professional or academic
profile
f value and support sessional, part-time and casual staff
f support our early and mid-career academics, which will in
turn improve our performance, diversity and inclusion, and
our recruitment and retention
f provide a flexible working environment that is inclusive and
supportive of individual circumstances, and that promotes a
sustainable work and life blend.
18 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Our friends, alumni and partners are integral to
our success
Deakin works in partnership to achieve its ambition. Through
collaboration and engagement, we will continue building a
strong sense of community with our students, staff, alumni and
supporters, as well as our industry, government and community
partners. We are known as a highly connected and collaborative
institution and we must enhance these qualities.
To succeed we must:
f build and foster partnerships with clear mutual benefit
and the potential to endure, using a distinctive place and
partnership model focussed on our five Impact Themes
f build connections with place that emphasise our links
with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples, their
communities and organisations
f continue to build global linkages and partnerships; a focus on
the Indo-Pacific region will be central to our future during the
next decade
f deliver an effective and sustainable community engagement
strategy attuned to regional and national priorities, which
brings community, industry and alumni onto our campuses.
Our friends and alumni value their ongoing engagement with
Deakin and see benefit in giving back to our University with their
time, influence and philanthropic contributions. We will plan and
launch a University-wide engagement and fundraising campaign
with defined targets, led by the Vice-Chancellor.
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 19
The way we work
Deakin is a large and multifaceted organisation. Our success
depends on optimising our infrastructure and enterprise
capabilities, which encompass our digital platforms, built
environment, services and financial resources. Our processes
and how we work enable our students and staff to achieve their
best and support our partnerships. We prioritise efficiency,
effectiveness and consistency, and everything we do will align
with our ambition and our Impact Themes. We will:
Deploy innovative digital technology
f Deliver outstanding digital capabilities that seamlessly blend
online and on campus activities.
f Ensure our cyber security is human-centric, ethical and
robust, protecting the data privacy of our people and our
partners.
f Integrate our online platforms across Deakin, leading to:
f new possibilities in our education, research and
innovation portfolios
f greater inclusion, effectiveness and efficiency across the
University
f improved engagement beyond the University
f more versatility and responsiveness to support core
activities in times of disruption
f opportunities for strategic growth.
Implement smart and effective ways of working
f Maximise the time and resources available for our core
activities by improving our systems and processes, including
our data usage.
f Automate all that can and should be, while personalising
processes and services when it matters, allowing staff to
focus on high-value activities.
20 - Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024
Provide contemporary and sustainable campuses
f Provide welcoming, safe and accessible physical
environments that are shaped by local contexts and create
distinctive student experiences.
f Develop innovation precincts that support collaboration and
sustainable job growth and leverage the distinctive locations
to support our ambitions.
f Allocate resources to optimise space and advance
environmental, economic and social sustainability.
f Make our campuses a demonstration of sustainable living
laboratories to become carbon neutral by 2025 and carbon
negative by 2030.
f Integrate sustainability principles in our planning and
governance across all aspects of the University, and lead the
sector in regenerative design and circular economy principles.
f Repurpose and redesign our buildings and campuses to best
suit a blended and digitally integrated university.
Ensure sustained financial security
f Ensure the efficient and effective management of our
operations, resources, assets and investments.
f Build financial resilience, revenue growth and the
diversification of income sources including philanthropy and
commercialisation.
f Balance current versus future investment.
f Incorporate environmental and social considerations into our
investment decisions.
Deakin 2030 Ideas to Impact | Strategic Plan | Refreshed March 2024- 21
Deakin is committed to becoming a truly accessible and inclusive organisation by embedding
accessibility across our online platforms, digital communications and marketing.
By ensuring our Strategic Plan is accessible, we provide equal access and equal opportunity
to people with diverse abilities.