Strategy and
Development Plan
2021-2024
Table of contents
7 Charter
13 Context
19 Strategic areas of action
21 Data and information
25 Health and medicine
28 Materials and manufacturing
29 Responsibility and sustainability
35 The next generations
39 Pioneering research
43 K nowledge exchange, technology transfer and
promoting innovation
47 Enabling strategies
4 A word from the President
ETH Zurich's Strategy and Development Plan provides a roadmap
for the next four years: it is a tool to help the ETH community and the
institution as a whole chart its course when it comes to education,
research, and knowledge and technology transfer. Just like science
itself, this process is not linear, but rather more akin to a constant
search for solutions and a willingness to critically examine what has
already been achieved.
This means that our roadmap must remain flexible to adapt
quickly to changing circumstances, to let go of what has become
obsolete, and to seize new opportunities. The coronavirus pandemic
has shown the world just how quickly the best laid plans and
intentions can turn to dust. The crisis is not an argument against
far-sighted planning, but it has shown us that we need to put even
more emphasis on scientific expertise.
Expanding this expertise and passing it on to the next generation
is, after all, the raison d'être of our university. The Strategy and
Development Plan ties into the strategic priorities of the previous
four-year period and sets out four strategic action areas: data and
information, health and medicine, materials and manufacturing,
and responsibility and sustainability.
At the end of the day, it is people who drive ETH Zurich forward
and make it so successful. This is why living out our values is so
crucial: values like responsibility, openness, diversity, team spirit and
excellence should be guiding our actions. In order to live up to these
principles, we still have to make improvements in some areas: for
instance, when it comes to raising female representation throughout
the university, or transferring the spirit of solidarity shown during
the corona crisis back into the "new normal" state of affairs.
ETH has a distinct culture of quality. By culture of quality, we
primarily mean a culture of learning that adapts to the ever-changing
demands and expectations of society, students, professors and
employees. By laying out ETH Zurich's qualitative goals and the
measures it will take to achieve them, this Strategy and Development
Plan is also part of the university's quality strategy.
This Strategy and Development Plan outlines ETH's mission of
contributing to prosperity and well-being in Switzerland and
5 A word from the President
advocating for the preservation of the country's vital resources.
T he scale and complexity of the global challenges we face require
an interdisciplinary approach and the will to cooperate with stake-
holders from every part of society. We have recalibrated our compass
and are ready to take the next steps. The next four years offer many
opportunities for ETH to develop as an educational institution and
to raise its profile on the national and international stage.
Charter
9 Vision
Paving the way in a complex world.
10 Mission
By educating the next generation of critical and creative thinkers,
we make a significant contribution to the common good and
the preservation of societal well-being, natural resources and
the environment. Analysing, developing solutions, making
decisions and creative thinking: these are the key skills of our
graduates and staff. Our research generates new knowledge
and technologies for the future. Together with our partners, we
find answers to the important questions of our time - and in
doing so, we advance our society, strengthen the economy, and
protect nature and the environment.
11 Values
Excellence
We strive for excellence in everything that we do. Our students,
researchers and employees shape our university and society with
the high quality of their contributions.
Responsibility
Integrity, mutual respect, and respect for people and the environ-
ment form the foundation of our actions and reflect our freedom in
research and teaching. We are tackling the great challenges of
our time and use a culture of critical thinking and the constant search
for sustainable solutions as our basis.
Diversity
Our success is based on the wide array of talented people in the
ETH community who creatively develop bold ideas and put solutions
into practice. We see all aspects of diversity as an opportunity.
Our international orientation and our intense dialogue with society
and across disciplines are factors that contribute majorly to
developing new research questions and teaching our students.
Openness
We are open to new ideas, new talent and new partnerships. As part
of this openness, we attach importance to internal and external
transparency. Participation and involvement are important features
of our decision-making process and have an identity-forming
effect. Students, researchers and employees are on equal footing
in this regard. We are known as a place where people can freely
express opinions and engage in open debate.
Team spirit
We solve complex issues in complementary teams that cut across
disciplines and job functions. We are committed to ETH and maintain
a culture of togetherness, mutual appreciation and mutual learning.
Context
14 Context
Paving the way they otherwise would not have achieved without
the knowledge, methodology and experience
ETH is characterised by its curiosity-driven of all partners. Open ETH ( formerly known as
approach to science, proximity to research, in- ETH+) allows all members of the ETH com-
novative teaching, strong partnerships and entre- munity to shape the future of the university.
preneurial spirit. Our staff and students create an Since 2017, this initiative has seen around
inspiring environment that stimulates dialogue CHF 130 million invested in 15 new professor-
and puts talent development in the spotlight. ships, technology platforms, and the establish-
ETH is exploring long-term societal and en viron- ment of networks and interdisciplinary centres.
mental developments in-depth and is strategical- Knowledge and technology transfer are part
ly working towards maintaining its position as of our core mission. We are seeing positive
one of Europe's - and the world's - leading trends when it comes to technology transfer:
universities. in 2020, 34 new companies were founded as
ETH spinoffs. ETH Transfer was also the first
Innovative teaching. ETH's main focus areas from non-Anglo-Saxon institution to be honoured by
the previous four-year period (2017-2020) - medi- the Global University Venturing Award as "Tech
cine, data, sustainability and manufacturing - Transfer Unit of the Year".
brought about not only numerous new research
projects, but also new degree programmes. The
new Bachelor's programme in Human Medicine Societal developments and
teaches students the fundamentals of molecu- global challenges
lar biology and medical technology alongside
traditional medical knowledge. EPFL (Swiss In 2015, the member states of the United
F ederal Institute of Technology in Lau sanne) Nations agreed on the Sustainable Develop-
and ETH Zurich launched a joint Master's degree ment Goals (SDGs) as part of their 2030 Agenda.
programme in Cyber Security. A new Master's All countries are called on to work together
degree programme in Quantum Engineering, to solve the urgent problems confronting the
which includes a strong emphasis on project- global community and to foster sustainable
oriented learning, allows students to implement development. As platforms for research, teach-
their knowledge in a modern engineering train- ing and knowledge transfer, universities have
ing programme. From 2017-2020, ETH almost a special role to play in this undertaking. ETH
doubled the amount of innovative continuing has accepted the challenge and takes the SDGs
education programmes on offer. One ex ample into consideration as part of the university's
is the new Certificate of Advanced Studies mission. Below we will look at several import-
(CAS) in Advanced Materials and Processes, in ant societal trends and global challenges that
which industry specialists complete a hands-on heavily influenced the formulation of ETH's
con tinuing education programme as part of a four strategic action areas.
sabbatical at ETH.
Digitalisation is shaping all sectors of the econ-
Successful research. The people at a university omy and numerous facets of our lives. Many
are what drives its success. Our researchers' people fear the job losses that will occur as a result
success rate with regard to European Research of automation - a process that is also threaten-
Council (ERC) grants regularly exceeds - by ing careers in the knowledge economy. On the
far - the European average in every category. The other hand, the automation process is bringing
same applies to being the home institution for about new opportunities that will put completely
the Swiss National Science Foundation's (SNF) different demands on how employees need to
National Centres of Competence in Research be trained and the types of tasks they have to
(NCCRs). Our researchers regularly receive perform. Modern, personalised products and
the highest international honours, such as the services based on data have the potential to funda-
Fields Medal in 2018. These are just a few select mentally change entire sectors in short periods of
examples of our exceptional achievements. ETH time - and to bring about entirely new models of
has also made significant investments in new doing business. The need to find solutions to the
platforms and technologies, thereby creating an challenges of data protection, privacy and cyber
excellent environment for researching the key security is becoming more urgent, and calls for
issues of the future. transparency and personal sovereignty over data
are growing louder. Research and teaching will
Participation and innovation. Interdisciplinary not only have to take these trends into account
collaboration is especially successful when but also influence them, generating stimuli for
people work together to devise solutions that innovation.
15 Context
Climate change is proceeding apace. The growing Developments in academia and
threat to the ability of the world to sustain a grow- higher education
ing population can only be countered through
joint global action towards behavioural change ETH operates in a competitive environment and
and more environmentally friendly technologies. measures its performance in research and teach-
The impact of climate change - temperature ing against the best universities and research
increases, natural disasters, thawing permafrost, institutions in the world. We want to be an
rising sea levels - will not only be felt by coastal attractive institution of higher education for our
cities. Consequences such as droughts, famines students and an excellent employer for our staff.
and biodiversity loss pose a threat to global food Certain developments are particularly relevant
systems and food security in both poor and pros- to the international university landscape and will
perous regions alike - developments that jeop- have a significant impact on our strategic devel-
ardise peace and security. We are witnessing the opment in the future. We will take a closer look
development of new technologies for renewable at these topics in the chapters "The next gen-
energy production and storage and energy- erations", "Pioneering research", "Knowledge
efficient systems for both household and indus- exchange, technology transfer and promoting
trial use. These technologies will provide a bridge innovation", and "Enabling strategies".
to a low-emission or emission-free future. It is
only possible to achieve a sustainable resource The higher education landscape around the world
economy - one that also takes the growth and is in a state of flux. Universities are engaged in
well -being of developing and emerging econ- a global competition for talent, research results
omies into account - through internationally and funding, and strive to strengthen the national
recognised cooperation in research and training economies of their home countries. Countries
that cuts across borders. like China are investing considerable resources
in educational and research institutions and
The population is ageing. Birth rates are low in are currently in direct competition with tradi-
many industrialised nations, while many people tional research centres in the United States and
born in baby-boom years are reaching retirement Europe. What we consider to be universal values
age. The resulting imbalance is jeopardising are weighted differently in different cultures,
the long-term stability of healthcare and social which leads to different interpretations of scien-
welfare systems. Meanwhile, life expectancy is tific ethics and different opportunities when it
increasing thanks to the progress of modern comes to developing and using technology. This
medi cine. In order for people to live longer lives can have implications for our competitiveness
while remaining healthy, society is looking to the going f o rward.
scientific community for solutions: prevention
and treatment that is affordable and can be sus- Increasing the transparency of the university
tained across generations. and research landscape. The public is turning
a critical eye towards scientific findings that
Urbanisation is creating megacities. All across significantly impact the future of the environ-
the world, there has been an increase in mobil- ment and society. At the same time, higher
ity and migration from rural regions. The driv- education budgets are coming under political
ers are population growth, coupled with a lack pressure. There is an increasing expectation
of economic perspectives and the impact of from the general public that universities should
climate change. Growing urbanisation requires tackle issues such as good governance and social
expanding the sustainable infrastructure of new responsibility. Good scientific practice, transpar-
megacities in a way that considers people's needs. ency, better scientific communication, dialogue
These areas will influence a large part of global with policymakers and society at large, and an
economic growth in the future. exchange between researchers and the general
public - all of these help to explain research find-
Society is orienting itself towards a multipolar ings and to understand their practical implica-
world in which education, technology and inno- tions, strengthening mutual trust on both sides.
vation will play a central role. ETH, as part of Scientific achievements require this kind of
a network with partners in education and the intellectual engagement in order for their soci-
private sector, now has a greater chance than etal relevance to be better understood, accepted
ever before to contribute to understanding and and supported.
solving all of these challenges. We are taking Open access and open data are making
developments in academia and higher educa- research results accessible to the general pub-
tion on board and working to shape them actively lic and are changing the established system of
going forward. verifying and disseminating these findings.
16 Context
Gatekeepers such as prestigious academic jour- with universities - more so than at any time over
nals and peer review processes are being ques- the past few decades - to recruit the best and
tioned, and alternative models are being discussed. brightest minds.
However, these alternative models must preserve
basic requirements for scientific publications: Investing in life-long learning. The next gener-
accuracy, replicability and reproducibility. ations will be characterised by their pursuit of
In the future, the value that education brings multiple careers - sometimes simultaneously.
to a certain location will be assessed on a global The type and amount of available knowledge
level. Universities should develop shared con- is changing ever more rapidly due to digitalisa-
cepts for overcoming the language and cultural tion and improved algorithms. This means that
barriers that arise when working across bor- life-long learning - in particular, learning new
ders - and for turning these experiences into methods for using knowledge for specific appli-
mutual learning opportunities. cations - will continue to grow in importance.
Universities will need to work with stakeholders
Technological change shapes research and from the private sector and society at large to
teaching. Modern technology has fundamentally develop new models that extend beyond conven-
changed the way we communicate. It influences tional continuing education programmes.
how we work together, how we share data, and
how we make use of media. The ability to effi-
ciently process large amounts of data has changed The ETH environment
processes and methodologies in many areas of
research. Established methods are now com- Open and international. The openness and inter-
plemented by the use of machine learning, and national outlook of Switzerland as a location
new analytical processes are making large data for education and research is central to ETH's
sets more accessible and easier to analyse. The ability to attract excellent students, early-c areer
growing digitalisation of research requires the and established researchers, professors and staff.
constant development of research infrastructure. Switzerland's international orientation also
New technology-based formats are being makes it easier for us to shape and take part in
experimented with as education and training international research networks.
tools. Around the world, billions are being European universities are characterised by
invested in educational technology, and the their intense cross-border cooperation, which
online education sector is growing. There are forms the basis of their joint efforts to find
two main questions that arise from this state of knowledge-based solutions to the most urgent
affairs: Who is checking the information that is challenges currently facing society. Horizon
available, determining its accuracy, and making Europe is a research and innovation programme
it available? And who is teaching the skills and launched by the European Union and is the
methods needed to put theory into practice, to l argest such programme in the world. Switzer-
assess knowledge critically, and to advance it to land's participation in Horizon Europe is essen-
the next level? These questions are relevant to tial to the country's development and importance
all phases of learning and teaching: secondary as a location for research and innovation.
school, higher education and continuing edu- Last but not least, the quality of life offered by
cation. Universities that conduct pioneering Switzerland is very attractive to the large inter-
research and research-based teaching have the national companies (and their staff) who open
expertise needed to stake out a clear position research centres here. This strengthens the eco-
in this environment and to integrate modern nomic power of the region and the Swiss research
technologies into their operations. However, community.
personal interaction will remain an important
part of education in the future, which means Autonomy and governance. The ETH Act, which
that a modern infrastructure with auditoriums grants us academic and financial autonomy, plays
and flexible spaces is needed. a significant role in our successful development.
The active participation of the entire ETH
Tech companies are investing in basic research community in shaping the development of the
and competing for talent. Four of the five US com- university is an important factor in our success
panies with the biggest market capital isation are and sets us apart internationally. The rETHink
technology companies. China is pursuing a strat- initative, which was launched in 2020 with the
egy of promoting the global reach of its tech firms. aim of setting the course for the university's
These companies are investing billions in research future development, is a good example of our
and development, with particular emphasis on ability to consolidate our strengths and engage
basic research. They are now competing directly with the ETH community.
17 Context
ETH's autonomy guarantees efficiency and
academic freedom, thanks to a structure consist-
ing of autonomous departments and independent
research groups along with the freedom to set
and implement our own strategic action areas in
research and teaching.
Stable and reliable funding. Stable and reliable
funding from the Swiss federal government is
essential for fulfilling our core mission and for
our future organisational development. This
funding allows us to build excellent infrastruc-
ture and cutting-edge technology platforms. It
also ensures suitable infrastructure for our profes-
sors, enabling them to submit successful research
proposals at home and abroad and to conduct
exploratory basic research. Furthermore, gener-
ous public funding is an important pre requisite
for successfully acquiring third-party funds and
is connected with sustainable financial manage-
ment - essential preconditions for our ability to
remain competitive on an international level.
Strategic areas
of action
20 Strategic areas of action
We are continually developing the diversity of
our research and teaching activities while at the
same time keeping our focus on a few core areas
that are of particular importance for the future of
Switzerl and. Bolstered by the individual strategies
of our academic departments, we have defined the
following strategic action areas for the 2021-2024
period: data and information, health and medic ine,
materials and manufacturing, and respon sibility
and sustainability.
All four strategic action areas open up equal
possibilities for exploratory basic research, applied
research, and new teaching programmes. Basic
research is the foundation for the success of ETH
as a whole and particularly for mission- oriented
research targeted at solving global challenges.
Interdisciplinary collaboration will be strength-
ened in all strategic action areas, thereby promot-
ing the translation of research results into real-
world applications and education and training
programmes. Our research and teaching activ-
ities acknowledge and respect the diverse range
of individual and group characteristics. All four
strategic action areas will facilitate new degree
programmes, innovative continuing education
programmes, stronger networking within inter-
disciplinary degree programmes, and project
work with practical applications.
21 Strategic areas of action
Data and information
Our society has been permeated by digitalisation, Objectives
social networks, artificial intelligence and other 1 We aim to secure our role as a leading research institution in
IT-based innovations. The consequences of data science, cyber security, artificial intelligence and machine
these disruptions - for instance, changes in the learning. We seek to promote understanding of the opportun-
working world, or issues surrounding security ities and risks posed by new technologies while grappling with
and privacy - are fundamental in nature and the associated ethical issues.
closely linked to technological developments. 2 We are strengthening our computer science and data science
Issues surrounding digitalisation are reflected instruction by integrating these topics into all disciplines,
in all strategic action areas, and we are trans- thereby contributing to the upskilling of society.
lating these issues into concrete objectives and
3 We foster exchange and cooperation with the Swiss private
measures. sector and start-ups and act as an expert partner regarding
issues of digital transformation.
4 We create conditions that attract the world's best minds in the
Data science and artificial intelligence
fields of data science, cyber security and artificial intelligence
and provide them with a challenging and inspiring environ-
Over the course of 2021-2024, we want to create ment with attractive conditions for conducting research.
more capacity in data science while strengthen-
5 We are increasing our involvement in digitalisation initiatives
ing the connection between the core subjects
in Switzerland and abroad and take a leading role in these
of computer science, mathematics, electrical projects.
engineering and information technology, and all
other disciplines represented at ETH. The ten-
sion between the broad interest in data and the
right to privacy has given risen to new interdiscip-
linary research topics that go beyond technical
issues and require close cooperation with the
social sciences and humanities.
Working together with Swiss and interna-
tional partners, we will continue to engage in
important collaborative research. Data Science is
one of the ETH Domain's Strategic Focus Areas,
and it is under this umbrella that we created the
Swiss Data Science Center together with EPFL.
The centre provides advice to Swiss businesses
and research institutions relating to the use of
appropriate models and methods for machine
learning. The Center for Learning Systems is
a joint research centre of ETH Zurich and the
Max Planck Society and is dedicated to machine
learning.
We educate computer scientists, giving them
profound expertise and fostering their critical
thinking skills when it comes to digital technol-
ogies. We teach the fundamentals of computer
science and data science in all our study pro-
grammes. Beyond the walls of ETH, we are con-
tinuing to work with Swiss high schools to recruit
students for our computer science programme,
with an emphasis on encouraging female students
to take an interest in the field. We support schools
in their goal of comprehensively integrating com-
puter science into their curricula and continuing
education programmes.
The Greater Zurich Area and other Swiss
cities are increasingly becoming IT hubs. This is
22 Strategic areas of action Data and information
a development that we want to support, and we Measures and initiatives
are increasingly working together with companies We are in the process of building up the ETH AI Center in order
in the area. to strengthen research on artificial research and related dis-
Information security and cyber security are ciplines. The ETH AI Center will promote interdisciplinary col-
topics that enjoy high priority on an economic, laboration and drive the adoption of new AI developments in
societal, political and military level. The digi- the natural sciences, health sciences, environmental sciences
talised knowledge economy is critically linked and robotics. An important component of this will be the ETH+
initiative Foundations of Data Science.
with the ability to securely transfer, process and
store information - while protecting privacy. In A new National Centre of Competence in Research - NCCR
order to strengthen our expertise in information Automation - is being created to fortify our research and edu-
security, we will continue to invest primarily in cation activities in the fields of cyber-physical systems, the
Internet of Things, autonomous mobility and machine learning.
the following areas:
Together with our research partners at EPFL, Swiss Federal
Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology (Empa) and
- Secure hardware: The security of the entire
the University of Applied Sciences Northwestern Switzerland,
hardware chain must be guaranteed via con-
we will advance the methodological and technological founda-
trolled, secure processes. This requires the tions of AI. The aim is to make the broad-scale implementation
development of new hardware concepts and of complex automated systems possible.
security standards for connected devices.
Thanks to new kinds of partnerships with private sector stake-
Notably, new computer architectures will
holders - with large tech firms in particular, but also with
become necessary to make security by design SMEs and large medical, energy and environmental firms - we
possible. are securing access to data that is crucial for research. We are
-- Secure software: Software security - specif- also advocating to ease access to public sector data.
ically, the ability to verify authenticity and
ETH is solidifying its position as a hub for research and educa-
protect against manipulation - requires new tion on security and privacy issues, for instance through the
programming concepts and innovative proto- ETH+ Security and Privacy in the Digital Society initiative. We
cols that work in tandem with secure hardware. hope to meet the growing demand for expertise in information
- Secure systems: The combination of secure security and data protection with the new Swiss Support
hardware and reliable software delivers indis- Center for Cybersecurity, which builds on existing initiatives
pensable system security for robotics, net- such as the Zurich Information Security and Privacy Center, the
SCION project for a secure internet, and the Cyber-Defense
worked systems and the Internet of Things.
Campus. We run the centre in cooperation with EPFL and offer
This has an impact on areas such as the future
critical expertise to our partners in the Swiss government, pri-
of mobility: self-driving vehicles must be
vate sector and civil society.
secured against unauthorised interventions.
The ETH+ initiative Digital Transformation and Society expands
Automated production, military systems, and
ETH's capacity for interdisciplinary research, teaching, know-
critical infrastructure for energy, water and gas
ledge transfer and outreach on the societal dimension of
supply rely on these novel concepts for secure
digital transformation. Operating at the interface of social
systems.
sciences, computer science and humanities, the initiative also
engages with the general public.
24 Strategic areas of action Data and information
Quantum engineering and computing Objectives
1 We are educating Switzerland's first generations of quantum
Our strategic involvement in quantum engineer- engineers.
ing and computing allows us to shape the devel-
2 We are expanding our capacity in quantum technology at the
opment of new quantum hardware and software
interface between basic research and engineering.
and to lay the foundation for future applications.
Quantum technology is revolutionising the
methodology of how specific numerical problems Measures and initiatives
are solved, how data is transferred, and how tiny
Based on the successes of the Quantum Science and Technol-
signals can be measured. New findings in quan- ogy (QSIT) NCCR, the Quantum Engineering Initiative, and the
tum physics allow us to tackle problems that were EU Quantum Flagship, we aim to build a Swiss hub for quan-
previously difficult to solve and to revamp how tum research over the 2021-2024 period. This ETH Centre
data transfers are safeguarded. for Quantum Science and Technology will cover the following
ETH has been at the forefront of shaping quan- areas:
tum information science and quantum technology Research: Working at the intersection between physics, com-
since the advent of these fields. Our strengths lie puter science and electrical engineering, we will translate
in conducting basic research: we are investigating fundamental findings from the quantum sciences into technol-
various potential platforms and paying particular ogies and applications. We will expand our capacity at the
attention to superconducting and semiconducting interface of basic research and engineering.
systems, but also to configurations of atoms, ions Education: We will continue to run the new Master's degree
and photons. Over the next few years, we want to programme in Quantum Engineering, which was launched as
work across disciplines with physicists, electrical a pilot project in 2019.
engineers, material scientists and computer sci- Cooperation: We will work with the PSI and partners from the
entists in order to translate established research private sector to build a countrywide quantum ecosystem,
findings into applied technologies. taking research cooperation in Switzerland and Europe to the
Thanks to our cooperation with the Paul next level.
Scherrer Institute (PSI) and the private sector, we
will be able to build the infrastructure required
for a countrywide quantum ecosystem.
25 Strategic areas of action
Health and medicine
Ageing societies in industrialised countries Objectives
require technological solutions for prevention,
1 We are committed to teaching and training a new generation
diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation. These of doctors and healthcare experts at the interface of medicine,
solutions must be affordable and sustainable technology and basic research. We support innovators who
across generations. Similar solutions can and work in the healthcare industry.
should be used to open up access to medical ser-
2 We foster interdisciplinary collaboration between hospitals,
vices for all. New medical approaches are being researchers and other stakeholders in the healthcare sector.
developed with the help of data science, digi-
3 We support digital transformation in medicine by intensifying
talisation, and new technologies in engineering
cooperation with computer science.
and the life sciences. We understand health to
be more than the result of medical processes: 4 We are developing new solutions for healthcare provision in
Switzerland, with a focus on prevention, diagnostics and re-
it is also the result of external influences such
habilitation. These solutions also help to improve healthcare
as nutrition, pollution and individual lifestyles.
in developing countries and conflict zones.
In today's society, living longer, healthier lives
is a goal that challenges both medicine and the
social system and also requires solutions for facil-
itating people's largely unrestricted participation
in social life as they age.
Healthcare research must take a number of
structural and financial challenges into consid-
eration such as the shortage of highly skilled
medical researchers as well as the high costs and
stringent requirements of clinical trials. Partner-
ships between healthcare providers, industry and
academia are needed to support high-quality med-
ical research and its translation into real-world
applications.
We aim to strengthen our contribution to
the Swiss healthcare system by building on
our involvement in existing national initiatives
such as the Swiss Personalized Health Network
and the ETH Domain's Strategic Focus Area
Personalized Health and Related Technologies.
We will continue to invest in partnerships with
universities, hospitals and companies, thereby
promoting the translation of research findings
into real-world medical applications. University
Medicine Zurich, a partnership between ETH,
the University of Zurich and the University of
Zurich's four hospitals, will play an important role
in this process.
Education and training. We successfully launched
the Bachelor's degree programme in Human
Medicine as a pilot project in 2017. We will con-
tinue to run the programme and expand our
cooperation with partner universities. Working
alongside various Swiss universities, university
hospitals and cantonal hospitals, we are treading
new ground in educating and training doctors
and other healthcare specialists. This is our con-
tribution to training more doctors in Switzerland
and is also our way of reacting to rapid devel-
opments in the medical field. New technologies
27 Strategic areas of action Health and medicine
are making earlier prediction, reliable diagnos- Measures and initiatives
tics and effective treatments easier and better. Developing clinical research centres together with hospitals
These developments, which are also due to in Zurich (e. g. The Loop Zurich), Basel and other locations. Cre-
digitalisation, require a rethinking and partial ating additional capacity via professorships that have access
reorientation of what medical careers look like. to clinical research infrastructure, e. g. ETHeart, which aims
They also require an increase in interprofessional to develop new therapies for cardiovascular diseases.
cooperation between hospitals, researchers and Researching and developing digital/mobile healthcare solu-
other stakeholders in the healthcare sector. tions by establishing research partnerships with the private
sector. We are paying particular attention to data science and
Access to medical research and translation into personalised medicine: for instance, our tumour profiler pro-
real-world applications. We are opening up ject (a new diagnostic tool being developed with Hoffmann-
La Roche, the university hospitals in Zurich and Basel, and the
access to medical research and its translation
University of Zurich) and the Future Health Technologies pro-
into real-world applications. Approximately
gramme at the Singapore-ETH Centre.
one-third of our professors in nine different
departments - from the natural sciences to engin- At the Wyss Zurich centre, ETH and the University of Zurich are
eering - are directly or indirectly involved in working together with the Wyss Zurich Foundation to translate
findings from basic research into practical applications for the
medical research. Their activities include con-
healthcare sector.
ducting basic research, developing new materials,
medical technologies, pharmaceutical products Intensifying research, teaching and knowledge transfer in the
and other bioactive substances, and creating field of rehabilitation technology and science via the Rehab
Initiative and the Rehabilitation Engineering and Science
novel approaches for prediction and diagnostics.
Center, a centre of excellence that was founded in 2020. We
Many of these activities are led by individual
will also continue our dialogue with the public by continuing
researchers who often do not have the access to
our Cybathlon events.
patients, patient data or infrastructure that would
The Botnar Research Centre for Child Health is a research
allow them to translate preclinical findings into
centre run by ETH and the University of Basel. The centre is
clinical practice. On the other side of the equation,
dedicated to paediatric research, overcoming healthcare chal-
healthcare professionals who work directly on the
lenges in developing countries, and developing digital and
ground often lack access to research infrastruc-
mobile healthcare solutions as well as cell-based therapies.
ture and the knowledge of how to turn patient
Launching the Microbiomes NCCR in order to study micro-
data into relevant insights. Closer working rela-
organism interaction in various systems (human, animal, plant
tionships with hospitals and new joint platforms
and environmental). A joint initiative by the University of Lau-
for clinical research are improving the translation
sanne, ETH, EPFL, Lausanne University Hospital, the Swiss
of new research findings into medically relevant Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology (Eawag),
applications. the University of Bern, and the University of Zurich, the Micro-
biomes NCCR brings together the life sciences, medicine,
Strengthening capacity for medical research. bioinformatics, nutrition and environmental science.
In order to promote cutting edge-research, we SKINTEGRITY is an ETH+ initiative that brings together experts
are creating new professorships that will be from basic research, clinical research, bioengineering and
able to develop and lead new kinds of clinical bioinformatics at ETH, the University of Zurich and the Univer-
studies. Their job consists of conducting basic sity Hospital Zurich. SKINTEGRITY is improving our under-
and applied research and delivering first-class standing of and ability to diagnose and treat skin defects and
teaching to students without providing clinical severe dermatological illnesses.
services. We will work together with clinical Thanks to the establishment of the MAS programme in Digital
partners to provide the infrastructure that is Clinical Research and the expansion of the MedLAB, we are
needed for independent medical research. Tech- creating an excellent foundation for doctors to familiarise
nological solutions can be used in tandem to con- themselves with the latest state of research at ETH, either
during their specialist medical training or later when they are
duct expensive, time-consuming clinical studies
practicing physicians.
in a more efficient manner.
Engagement in developing countries and conflict
zones. We are developing solutions and processes
that allow for outpatient treatment and location -
independent monitoring, thereby reducing costs.
Intelligent algorithms can help to develop reliable
and affordable models for diagnostics and pre-
vention. By working together with international
organisations, we are demonstrating our commit-
ment to efficient solutions for crisis zones and
developing regions.
28 Strategic areas of action
Materials and manufacturing
New sustainable, resource-saving materials and Objectives
production technologies are of great importance 1 We are consolidating our position as a leading research and
to the economy and the prosperity of Switzer- education centre for new materials and pioneering manufac-
land and the world. Digitalisation is fundamen- turing processes. New findings in these areas will be applied
tally transforming the landscape when it comes in construction, the mechanical, electrical and metal industry,
to material development, constructive design medical technology, the pharmaceutical industry and the food
and manufacturing technologies, and the reuse industry.
and recycling of materials. These developments 2 We are creating networks between the fields of material sci-
are leading to more flexibility, productivity and ence and manufacturing and process technology to generate
quality. Innovative materials and digital manu- new applications for industrial use in Switzerland and abroad.
facturing processes such as additive technologies By bringing together computer science, artificial intelligence,
and information and communication technology, we are
and robotics are opening up new possibilities in
exploring possibilities for digitalising and optimising entire
the production of new shapes and combinations
production processes.
of materials.
Developing new materials and understanding 2 By working closely with large companies and SMEs, we create
them on all levels - from their atomic structure to added value via active knowledge and technology transfer and
innovations in materials and manufacturing.
their use as components - is of great importance
to future manufacturing processes, which span
a range that includes nanotechnology, surface
Measures and initiatives
technology, additive manufacturing, industrial
The Centre for Computationally Augmented Design in Archi-
processes and the construction industry. Take
tecture and Construction (Design++) is an ETH+ initiative that
information and quantum technology as an ex-
is opening up new possibilities in digital design. In the robotics
ample: progress in these fields depends on the
space, the RobotX Center brings together intelligent machines,
ability to integrate new materials into semicon- infrastructure, education and research, while the Robotic
ductor manufacturing. In medical technology and Materials initiative is linking new paths in material develop-
new industrial production processes, the proper- ment with the latest advances in robotics, human-robot inter-
ties of materials are decisive for both quality and action and artificial intelligence.
reliability, for instance when it comes to metallic The newly launched Laboratory for Multiscale Materials Syn-
materials, ceramics, plastics, biomaterials and thesis is promoting investments in the development of new
construction materials. intelligent materials. Suitable models and machine learning
ETH helped to build up the ETH Domain's allow scientists to design new metallic and semiconductive
Strategic Focus Area in Advanced Manufactur- materials and to engage in their experimental production and
ing over the course of 2017-2020. Manufacturing characterisation.
technology was a main focus area of ETH Zurich Bringing Materials to Life is an ETH+ initiative that uses an
during this time, and we will continue to actively interdisciplinary approach to investigate how living organisms
promote and develop this field. ETH's inter- adjust and produce certain material characteristics in a
disciplinary Competence Center for Materials targeted manner.
and Processes has been successful in bundling We are developing a cross-departmental initiative called
the university's general expertise in innovative Engin eering with Living Materials, which is dedicated to
mater ials and its special expertise in soft mater- researching material systems that are adaptive, self-healing
ials and metals. The centre is helping to continue and organic. The goal is also to research temporary materials
that break down in the body after fulfilling their function.
expanding this expertise by running joint cross-
departmental projects. We also initiated innova- Knowledge and technology transfer is supported by inspire AG,
tive research projects on additive manufacturing a national centre of excellence for technology transfer to the
and engaged with external partners through mechanical, electrical and metal industries.
the ETH Domain's Strategic Focus Area in AdditivETH is a platform that supports capacity building and
Advanced Manufacturing. We also strengthened collaboration in the field of 3D printing and the scaling of
research and teaching in digital fabrication and additive manufacturing processes for personalised medicine
robotics with National Centres of Competence in and robotics.
Research by the same names: the NCCR Digital
Fabrication and the NCCR Robotics.
29 Strategic areas of action
Responsibility and sustainability
The scope and complexity of the urgent challenges Objectives
of our time require a holistic, interdisciplinary 1 We promote the responsible use of natural resources through
approach that calls for open cooperation between research, teaching and innovation.
people who think and act critically. According to
2 We aim to be carbon neutral by 2030 by reducing our green-
the ETH Act, teaching and research are guided
house gas emissions by at least 50 percent compared to 2006
by respect for human dignity, responsibility in and covering the remaining emissions via carbon offsets. To
the use of natural resources and the environment help achieve this goal, we undertake research and teaching
together with an evaluation of the consequences projects as part of our Living Labs programme.
of technological applications. In order to live up to
3 We take on a leading role in society and the scientific commu-
these principles, we integrate sustainability into nity when it comes to assessing the opportunities, risks and
our research activities and our daily actions. We consequences of technological change. We are strengthening
promote responsibility, cooperation, and a cul- our research in this area, which enables us to answer complex
ture of critical and constructive thinking, and we ethical questions and propose solutions.
engage in dialogue with the general public. 4 We are creating structures and instruments to anticipate and
develop solutions for future technological developments and
societal challenges long before they happen.
5 We are internationally renowned as an interdisciplinary centre
of excellence for integrative solutions that cut across discip-
lines, and we foster cooperation on a national and international
level.
6 We maintain a dialogue with the general public, build new part-
nerships and perform our role as a provider of knowledge for
evidence-based policy.
7 We foster the analytical abilities of our students and staff,
encourage them to reflect on their own actions as well as those
of others, and urge them to consider various perspectives
when developing solutions. This allows them to act r esponsibly
on behalf of ETH and society as a whole.
30 Strategic areas of action Responsibility and sustainability
Sustainability Measures and initiatives
Urbanisation is a global trend that ETH has been researching
We want to contribute to global efforts towards at the Future Cities Laboratory at the Singapore-ETH Centre.
the sustainable development of all countries The Future Cities Laboratory (FCL) - Global initiative will build
and the maintenance of our natural resources. on these efforts in order to research and design the cities of
We have consciously decided to take a holistic the future on a broader scale. Additionally, we are launching
approach that combines the economic, social and a new Master's degree programme in Landscape Architecture
to teach the next generation about understanding, maintaining
ecological dimensions of sustainability. For this
and developing public spaces and landscapes in a time of
reason, we are actively committed to the sustain-
rapid change.
able use of resources in our research, teaching
and innovation activities. We have partnered with the other ETH Domain institutions,
Sustainability is part of the culture at ETH private sector partners and additional universities to take part
in SWEET (SWiss Energy research for the Energy Transition),
and has played a central role in research, teach-
a new funding programme of the Swiss Federal Office of
ing and knowledge transfer for many years. Sus-
Energy. The Energy Science Center has launched the Renew-
tainability was one of our five main focus areas
able Management and Real-Time Control Platform project as
during the 2017-2020 period. Our research and a test environment for researching future energy supply sys-
teaching are aimed at better understanding the tems. The SCCER Mobility supported the development of
scientific underpinnings of the natural world expertise and networks within the research community as well
and at bringing more sustainable practices to the as with the private sector and public authorities. We will build
fields responsible for the bulk of environmental on the momentum generated by the SCCER Mobility and our
pollution. We want to ensure that future gener- mobility initiative to establish the Competence Centre on Sus-
tainable Future Mobility.
ations can live more sustainably. For this reason,
our sustainability efforts focus on protecting the NCCR Catalysis, a new National Centre of Competence in
environment, natural resources and biodiversity Research, has begun and is being conducted jointly with EPFL,
as well as finding sustainable solutions for con- the University of Basel, the University of Bern, the University of
Zurich, the School of Engineering and Architecture of Fribourg,
struction, housing, energy, mobility and nutrition.
and the Zurich University of Applied Sciences. Researchers are
Furthermore, we live up to sustainable values on
working to lay the basis for sustainable chemistry in order to
our own campus and promote the idea of using
create a CO₂-neutral chemical industry.
ETH as a living lab.
We are breaking new ground in researching and developing
safe and healthy nutrition. The Future Food Initiative was
jointly launched by ETH's World Food System Center and
EPFL's Integrative Food Science and Nutrition Center. The ini-
tiative supports up-and-coming researchers on the postdoc
level, brings academic and industrial research closer together,
and strengthens efforts to translate academic findings in the
field of nutrition into real-world applications. The Plant Hub
Eschikon research station will create a comprehensive infra-
structure for the next generation of plant science.
By 2024, we aim to reduce our CO₂ emissions by a further 20
percent compared to 2018, and we will see a substantial reduc-
tion in emissions from air travel. ETH will also continue to
decarbonise its energy supply by implementing the energy
master plan for the central campus and developing the Anergie
grid on the Hönggerberg campus. This will allow ETH to achieve
the targets set by the Swiss federal government.
We are strengthening the ETH for Development initiative in
order to combat poverty sustainably through collaborative
research between the natural sciences, engineering and social
sciences. Working together with EPFL, the International Com-
mittee of the Red Cross and other potential partners, we are
strategically developing technologies and approaches that can
be used in humanitarian relief work.
Along with MeteoSwiss, Empa, the Swiss Federal Institute for
Forest, Snow and Landscape Research (WSL), and Agroscope,
we are jointly investing in the cross-institutional Center for
Climate Systems Modeling and the ETH+ initiative EXCLAIM.
These investments will create a state-of-the-art infrastructure
that allows for weather and climate modelling, the develop-
ment of new climate change scenarios for Switzerland, and an
open conversation with the general public.
32 Strategic areas of action Responsibility and sustainability
Technological change: Measures and initiatives
opportunities and risks
An ethics centre will be established in order to address the
mounting ethical challenges arising at the intersection of
New technologies act as the driver of societal research, real-world applications and society. The focus is on
progress. At the same time, they have great con- technoethics, bioethics and scientific ethics.
sequences - both positive and negative - for the
In order to understand the opportunities and risks posed by
environment and society. These consequences technological change and to share this expertise with the
are often unexpected and only become visible public and decision-makers, ETH researchers are joining the
once the technology is at a further stage of devel- conversation on the development of new technologies and
opment. We are examining this issue from two their real-world applications. We are integrating these issues
angles. Firstly, how can we use research to iden- into our curricula.
tify the opportunities and risks of technological We are creating a structure at ETH that allows us to anticipate
change early on, enhancing its utility for business technological and social change and to define strategic areas
and society while at the same time limiting its of action with international relevance at an early stage
downsides? Secondly, how can we identify pio- (s trategic foresight).
neering developments early on in order to help
ETH maintain its position as a leading technical
and scientific university with national and inter-
national reach?
Interdisciplinary cooperation Measures and initiatives
We are creating additional incentives and infrastructure for
The complexity of scientific and sociopolitical interdisciplinary collaboration. The ETH+ initiative, launched
issues has increased and often goes beyond the in late 2017, promotes capacity building and interdisciplinary
scope of a single discipline. Working together collaboration between academic departments. Open ETH
across different fields will better the odds of find- arose from the ETH+ initiative and goes one step further by
ing innovative solutions. promoting interdisciplinary collaboration beyond ETH, thereby
ETH+, an initiative launched in late 2017, lending support to long-term research initiatives.
began a process of promoting interdisciplinary Collegium Helveticum has established itself as a transdisciplin-
issues that cut across departmental lines and ary laboratory for creative partnerships and as a location for
building up the capacity needed to address them. promoting selected up-and-coming talent in the arts and
sciences.
33 Strategic areas of action Responsibility and sustainability
Engaging with the public Measures and initiatives
We are intensifying our dialogue with society at large when it
As a leading European scientific and technical comes to issues from our strategic action areas, employing
university and one of the best universities in innovative formats and contemporary forms of science com-
the world, we have a responsibility to constantly munication. We will continue to increase our capacity to engage
promote and cultivate knowledge exchange in in an open, proactive dialogue with the public, building on suc-
a spirit of partnership with the scientific com- cessfully established outreach programmes such as Treff-
munity, the private sector, policymakers and the punkt Science City, Scientifica, ETH Meets You and the ETH
Digital Platform.
general public.
We serve society by educating graduates with We engage with policymakers and inform policy through dia-
a sense of responsibility and sending them into logue and new platforms, bringing the scientific community
the world equipped to think and act in a global, and decision-makers together.
sustainable context. We use our research find- We are developing new exhibition formats and platforms for
ings to provide an empirical basis for political dialogue that fuse science and art and help to present complex
and economic decision-making and to cultivate topics in an attractive, accessible way. By moving art and
a dialogue with the public on equal footing. science closer to one another, we are acting in the spirit of
Gottfried Semper's motto: "Science shall be pervaded by art
The COVID-19 crisis has once again confirmed
and art by science."
how important scientific findings are to govern-
ments and societies. Although most research had We bring ETH to life in an interactive visitors' centre. Our
to be conducted remotely, new research activities diverse collections are being made more accessible thanks to
digitalisation.
quickly arose and contributed to our understand-
ing of the pandemic and how to deal with and
contain it. Researchers pushed ahead with new
projects at breakneck speed, ranging from basic
research in biology, chemistry, health science and
medicine to engineering new types of ventilators.
The helfpfulETH platform was created to bring
hospitals and other healthcare institutions closer
to the research community so that researchers
could react quickly to concrete needs and develop
solutions.
The social, economic and political implica-
tions of the pandemic are also important research
questions, including the impact on our behaviour,
the working world and management. Two areas
of research have enjoyed particular prominence:
investigations of how the virus spreads, both
within Switzerland and globally, and the devel-
opment of the SwissCovid app, a tool for contact
tracing that was created in cooperation with EPFL
and the Federal Office of Public Health. Several
ETH professors serve on the Swiss National
COVID-19 Science Task Force and provide their
expertise to the federal authorities.
T he next
generations
36 The next g enerations
We are training our students to become independ- Objectives
ent and creative thinkers who can act as respon-
1 We promote the acquisition of soft skills (e. g. entrepreneurial
sible citizens and help shape the future. Education thinking), social skills, leadership abilities, computational
at ETH is interdisciplinary and research-based; competencies, and the ability to analyse complex issues.
it trains students to identify problems and find
2 We are intensifying our efforts to create space for curiosity,
solutions in our complex, quickly changing world.
creativity and flexibility in our degree programmes, thereby
Our degree programmes provide a solid laying the foundations for lifelong learning.
metho dological foundation and technical expert-
3 We use modern technology in our teaching activities, integrate
ise, interdisciplinary and systemic thinking, and
scientific findings into our lessons, and conduct pedagogical
social skills. We foster a culture of independent
research.
learning that boosts students' individual strengths
4 Our courses for future teachers place heavy emphasis on
and allows them flexibility in designing their
teaching critical thinking skills to ensure that this fundamental
study programme. Our study programmes and
concept is already taught in early education.
curricula are competitive and oriented towards
the needs of the next generations and the work-
ing world. Our graduates are in high demand in
society, the scientific community and the private
sector in Switzerland and abroad.
Students are active agents in their education
and help shape courses through their participa-
tion. They are motivated, committed to acquiring
social and technical skills, and open to innovative
forms of teaching.
Research-based teaching
Research and teaching must be closely linked.
We therefore continually develop the content
of our degree programmes based on the latest
developments in science and technology. The
challenge lies in developing new content that
simultaneously teaches and solidifies the basics
of the field while taking cutting-edge develop-
ments into equal consideration. Integrating all
ETH researchers into our teaching activities is
the best way to achieve this. Our close working
relationship with the private sector allows us
to hold courses that give students real-world
insights and encourage entrepreneurial thinking.
Our curricula are systematically developed
in order to foster flexibility and personal initia-
tive. We give students more freedom of choice
within their degree programmes by offering more
specialisations and electives. Students are sup-
ported by tutors when designing their studies.
Our Master's degree programmes are designed
to give students direct entry into cutting-edge
research or the ability to launch a career in the
private or public sector.
Creativity and soft skills
Teaching skills outside of the subject immediately
at hand is an important component of all courses.
Students and staff develop and practice the ability
to differentiate between different positions,
points of view and behaviours, to critically - and
self-critically - examine them, and to identify
appropriate courses of action. Critical thinking
thus forms the foundation of a comprehensive
vision of university education and organisational
37 The next g enerations
culture that teaches additional soft skills. These Measures and initiatives
skills make it possible to solve complex prob- We are launching new initiatives and developing existing pro-
lems and shape our transformation towards a grammes such as ETH Week in order to meet the urgent need
sustainable society. for soft skills and critical thinking abilities. The ETH Talent
Soft skills also include the ability to openly project aims to emphasise the importance of soft skills, to
reflect on and maintain one's own physical and boost the visibility of interdisciplinary training, and to provide
mental health. We support students by giving lecturers with easy-to-implement didactic models. PRISMA is
a student project that integrates interdisciplinary project work
them appropriate workloads. We live up to our
into the ETH curriculum. As part of PRISMA, students work
leadership responsibilities and offer support and
in small interdisciplinary teams to tackle important social
advice to students and staff.
and scientific questions and to develop answers to challenges
We motivate students and staff to think cre-
facing societies across the globe.
atively beyond cultural and field-specific borders,
The Student Project House promotes the development of soft
to assess complex problems holistically, to adopt
skills and entrepreneurial thinking. The Social Innovation Lab,
stances based on ethics and to act in a responsible
which is part of the Student Project House, offers students the
manner. They should also recognise how stereo-
opportunity to tackle unsolved societal problems of global sig-
types and unconscious bias work and understand nificance by working together in interdisciplinary teams. The
why awareness of equal opportunity and diversity ETH Singapore Month programme pursues a similar goal. The
form an important component of responsible four-week summer school at the Singapore-ETH Centre is run
conduct. together with CREATE and local partners.
The Science in Perspective programme teaches The new Future Learning Initiative is supported by twenty -
students to recognise connections between scien- three professors from nine departments. The aim is to make
tific findings, technical innov ations, cultural ETH a leading centre for the science of learning, with research
contexts, individuals and soci eties and to assess that can be immediately applied to teaching practice. ETH sup-
them in a critical manner. This improves students' ports innovative adjustments to teaching in its academic
reflection skills and prepares them for the societal departments as well as student initiatives.
developments and global challenges that they will ETH supports student initiatives. One example is the establish-
later face. This kind of thinking is being increas- ment of the new Interdisciplinary Engineering degree pro-
ingly integrated into all degree programmes. gramme, which provides students with the opportunity to
We are particularly committed to project-based combine the fundamentals of engineering with content from
all engineering fields, business and management, and the
learning, which is being strengthened and pro-
social sciences and humanities. The programme promotes a
moted in all departments. Projects are an import-
holistic interdisciplinary education and meets the demands of
ant tool for increasing students' motivation and
the job market by expanding the methodological skills of our
curiosity via interdisciplinary collaborative work.
graduates.
They also serve to promote the development of
Our Youth Academy promotes STEM subjects and specialisa-
students' social skills and ability to think holisti-
tions to high school students, recruits suitable students to
cally. Experiential and problem-oriented learning,
study at ETH, and prepares them for their degree programmes.
comprehensive skill development and construct-
The initiative is based on ETH's strong relationships with high
ive feedback are all central components of this schools in German- and Italian-speaking Switzerland. It offers
process. exciting courses that are scientifically evaluated for effective-
ness and continually improved.
Quality through innovation
Quality assurance for teaching and curriculum
development needs to be viewed through the lens
of ETH's growing student population, the growing
heterogeneity of the student body and the addition
of new degree programmes and technologies.
This growth, particularly on the Master's
degree level, is a challenge because of the level of
individual supervision required for each student.
For this reason, we need to develop instruments
that allow for moderate growth without losing
sight of quality, to significantly increase our
teaching capacity both in terms of infrastructure
and staff, and to develop new teaching formats
and techniques that increase the efficiency of
teaching without reducing its quality.
New technologies have had a major impact
on teaching over the past two decades, making
it possible to host remote lectures and easier
38 The next generations
to study on a flexible timetable. By combining and sabbatical opportunities for lecturers in the
these formats with mentoring and interdisciplin- private sector (and vice versa). We will build on
ary project work, it becomes possible to take these initiatives in order to continue shaping the
students' individual learning styles more into development of teaching, particularly with regard
account. Teaching concepts based on this kind to introducing new technological tools and in -
of new technology require that students have the novative teaching methods.
skills and ability to deal with flexible, changing A significant portion of math, computer sci-
and individualised forms of learning - skills that ence and natural science teachers in advanced
are becoming increasingly important in the work- high schools in Switzerland are graduates of
ing world as we move into the future. ETH Zurich. By training these future STEM
The COVID-19 crisis was a great challenge for teachers, we support high school students' inter-
lecturers, students and staff at ETH. At the same est in science and mathematics and foster the
time, however, the crisis provided an impetus for skills they need to succeed in these subjects. We
innovative teaching ideas. Driven by the special therefore consider the education and training of
circumstances of the lockdown, distance learning high school teachers to be one of our core activ-
became a widespread form of instruction within ities and an important contribution to knowledge
just a short period of time. While it is clear that transfer in Switzerland. We also run learning cen-
direct interaction between lecturers and students tres at EducETH, where we support instruction
will remain a core component of excellent teach- in STEM subjects at the primary and second-
ing, our experiences with remote teaching during ary level by working together with teachers to
the lockdown have advanced our understanding develop and implement new teaching concepts.
of how to best combine classroom teaching with
new online methods in the future.
The changes in education accelerated by the
corona crisis have boosted the importance of
research into teaching and learning. Our goal
is to continue improving teaching and learning
outcomes on the university level and to take on a
leading role in the science of teaching and in nova-
tive teaching methods. We want to understand
the nature of formal and informal learning on
a neural, cognitive, social and cultural level and
to drive the implementation of these findings in
real-world teaching activities.
We foster innovation in teaching via strategic
programmes, funding instruments, prizes and
curriculum development experts. We give the
Golden Owl and KITE awards to teaching staff
who exhibit excellence in teaching and enrich
their lessons in innovative ways. We will continue
expanding virtual reality and online platforms
that enable new kinds of interactions. While
regular interaction between teaching staff and
students should take place in person wherever
possible, digital technologies can complement
personal contact and allow for independent learn-
ing, subject specialisation and flexibility. There
will be expanded options for participation, and
the personal supervision of large groups of stu-
dents will become easier, even when the students
are scattered across the globe.
Findings from research in teaching and
learning and the development and application
of new technologies help us to develop strat-
egies for dealing with the growth of the student
body. During the last planning period, the aca-
demic departments and the Educational Devel-
opment and Technology office launched several
initiatives such as the Center for Active Learning
Pioneering
research
40 Pioneering research
Research is the primary source of innovation in Objectives
knowledge-based societies. It forms the founda-
1 We will continue to create space for exploratory research and
tion for higher education at ETH. Our outstand- provide optimal conditions for using the great innovative
ing research achievements are made possible by potential of basic research.
generous federal funding, competitive research
2 Building on their strengths and expertise, our academic
grants (particularly those from the Swiss National
departments work together closely with the aim of strategic-
Science Foundation, Innosuisse, numerous ally establishing interdisciplinary research expertise and
foundations, and European research funding research centres.
programmes), and collaboration with the private
3 We will maintain, consolidate and construct top-notch scien-
sector. This helps us ensure that our research
tific infrastructure and make our technology platforms avail-
findings can make long-term contributions to the able to the research community and the private sector.
wellbeing of society, to economic development,
4 We create structures to ensure that our scientists respect
and to solving the complex problems facing our
ethical principles and good scientific practice in their research
planet.
and day-to-day interactions.
Our current strategic challenge is balancing
the need to advance new fields of research while
further developing our expertise in core fields.
Our goal is to add new research areas by continu-
ally expanding capacity, particularly by appoint-
ing new professors, and to open up important
new areas of interdisciplinary investigation.
Investment in curiosity-driven research
We ensure that researchers have optimal con-
ditions and financial resources for conducting
cutting-edge basic research. We promote research
into new issues through bottom-up research initi-
atives while respecting the principles of subsidi-
arity and autonomy.
Research networks
We are continuing to promote bottom-up inter-
disciplinary projects within ETH and will take part
in national research networks such as NCCRs.
Furthermore, we make significant contributions
to the Strategic Focus Areas of the ETH Domain:
Data Science, Personalised Health and Related
Technologies, and Advanced Manufacturing. We
are also intensifying bilateral cooperation with
institutions within the ETH Domain, with the
University of Zurich, and with other players.
The digitalisation of research
The ability to efficiently collect, store and process
vast amounts of data is changing the way we do
research and making a big impact on scientific
methodology in many fields. Examples include
using computer-assisted machine learning to
complement model-based approaches, and the
extraction of information and knowledge using
new types of analytical processes. In order to stay
on top of these trends, we are building our expert-
ise and resources in statistics, data science, infor-
mation theory, modelling and machine learning
in several departments. At the same time, we
are intensifying the links between mathematics,
computer science, information technology and
other disciplines in order to develop new research
areas at the intersection of these disciplines.
41 Pioneering research
The digitalisation of research also requires con- Measures and initiatives
stant infrastructure development. This requires
We promote basic research and interdisciplinary research by
an expansion of our existing data processing and operating and expanding existing structures and initiatives
storage infrastructure - and related programming such as the Institute for Theoretical Studies and National
support - in strategically important areas. Centres of Competence in Research.
We are launching the Origin and Prevalence of Life initiative to
Research infrastructure and
explore the origin and diversity of life on this planet and
technology platforms beyond. The main elements of the initiative are an interdiscip-
Today's research is, to a large extent, based on linary centre and the creation of new professorships to build
technology. This means that we can only main- an important bridge between existing professorships and
tain our top position by operating and constantly activities in biology, chemistry, physics, earth science and
updating our cutting-edge research infrastruc- environmental science. There are also plans for courses with
a stronger interdisciplinary focus in this area.
ture and by strengthening collaborative research
through our technology platforms. We are launching the Filming Electrons in Action initiative in
National and international consortia are collaboration with the PSI. The latest advances in ultra-fast
increasingly needed to tackle this challenge due laser technology combined with XFEL technology allow us to
better understand the swift movements of electrons over very
to the complexity and the rising costs for plann-
short distances.
ing, building and operating this kind of infra-
structure. For this reason, we operate large-scale The development and university-wide implementation of a soft-
national research infrastructure and take part in ware system for evaluating and funding projects in teaching
and research (eResearch) will make it possible to manage fund-
inter national consortia and cross-border funding
ing more efficiently and advance digitalisation at ETH.
for international research organisations such as
CERN. We are planning a significant development of the Swiss
National Supercomputing Centre, with the upcoming upgrade
Good scientific practice of the Sustained Scientific User Lab for Simulation Based Sci-
ence deserving special mention. There are also plans for new
Our structures and processes ensure that eth-
research infrastructure. ETH will continue to provide dedi-
ical principles and good scientific practice are
cated data processing infrastructure, expanding it based on
respected and adhered to, both in our research
the needs of researchers.
and in our daily interactions with one another.
We are working together with EPFL to establish the Swiss
The Commission for Good Scientific Practice
Catalysis Hub, a new research infrastructure within the ETH
promotes the development of a common under-
Domain. Various other ETH Domain institutions are involved in
standing on issues surrounding ethical principles
establishing the hub, which will advance the development of
and scientific integrity in research.
new kinds of catalytic processes and the use of renewable
energy sources such as hydroelectric, solar and wind energy
Open science to power chemical reactors. The hub is a central element of
Increasing the quality and speed of research the NCCR Catalysis.1
requires faster, more comprehensive access to
We will continue to develop guidelines and processes with
research findings as well as a higher degree of regard to scientific integrity, good scientific practice and deal-
transparency in research processes. These are ing with scientific misconduct.
values currently at the heart of a global debate
We are developing university-wide guidelines for handling
on what is referred to as "open science". Both
research data. These guidelines will take the principles of
the scientific community and society at large open data, open code and open innovation into account. In the
are putting more pressure on institutions to take long term, we are striving towards a comprehensive open
action in this regard. We recognise the strategic science policy that will serve as the basis for further concrete
importance of open science and provide clear measures.
guidelines on this topic, chiefly for areas that
aim to improve research collaboration. ETH will
continue to develop its excellent open access
and open data services and will expand them to
include the closely related areas of open code and
open innovation.
1 Please refer to the section entitled "Responsibility and
sustainability".
Knowledge exchange,
technology transfer
and promoting
innovation
44 Knowledge exchange, technology transfer and promoting innovation
Sharing knowledge and translating research results Objectives
into commercial products are two activities that
1 We promote partnership-based exchange and collaboration
build an important bridge between academia and with Swiss companies, which contributes to the prosperity and
society. We have a responsibility to make original innovative strength of the country.
insights and new findings available to the public
2 By working closely together with businesses and public
via education and knowledge exchange.
authorities, we enable society to benefit from our research
We actively contribute to progress and pros- findings, and we support the swift translation of new ideas into
perity in our digitalised world by translating our real-world applications through our spin-off companies. We
research results into concrete applications, by aim to sustain the positive trend of the last few years.
educating graduates who go on to work in private
3 We are developing new models for lifelong learning and con-
companies and government, and by founding tinuing education and tapping into new target groups, thereby
innovative spin-off companies. Educating our strengthening the employability of the Swiss workforce and
students is our most important contribution to the competitive advantage of the country.
knowledge exchange and building Switzerland's
innovative strength. We complement this through
a broad spectrum of knowledge exchange activi-
ties such as joint research projects with business
and licensing new technologies. Additionally, we
are increasingly committed to continuing educa-
tion, which meets society's growing demand for
lifelong learning.
Collaboration with the private sector
One important feature of ETH as a scientific and
technical university is its close collaboration with
business partners in Switzerland and abroad. In
addition to joint projects, these partnerships
also lead to the establishment of new professor-
ships. Many departments have economic advisory
committees that help shape the development of
teaching and research and serve as an important
barometer for the needs of the economy. Mem-
bers of these committees provide mentoring to
students and junior researchers. On the other
side of the equation, our researchers play impor-
tant roles as leaders and advisors in national and
international companies and organisations.
Promoting the innovation ecosystem
In addition to direct collaboration with the pri-
vate sector, ETH Zurich shapes society and the
economy through its start-ups. We promote
entrepreneurial activities throughout the ETH
community, with a special emphasis on bring-
ing our research findings to market by patenting
promising technologies and founding spin-off
companies. Diverse programmes such as the
ETH Zurich Pioneer Fellowship support young
researchers as they transition from research to
start-up life. Official ETH spin-offs receive sup-
port during their founding and the first few years
of their existence, including receiving profes-
sional advice, access to essential infrastructure
and networking with key players in the private
sector. More than 100 new ETH spin-offs have
been founded over the past four years.
We view engagement with industry and
knowledge and technology transfer as a long-term
commitment and our way of contributing to
45 Knowledge exchange, technology transfer and promoting innovation
innovation and prosperity in the Canton of Measures and initiatives
Zurich as well as Switzerland as a whole. For
We are expanding the innovation ecosystem in the Zurich
this reason, we work together with public and region and accelerating knowledge and technology transfer by
private sector partners to develop the innova- building on existing initiatives such as Technopark and the
tion e cosystem in the greater Zurich region and Innovation Park in Dübendorf.
throughout Switzerland. We take an active role
The construction of the ultra-modern Good Manufacturing
in shaping knowledge and technology transfer Practice technology platform at the Department of Biosystems
thanks to our strong collaboration with business Science in Basel is advancing the knowledge translation pro-
incubators and venture capital funds and our par- cess and progress in personalised medicine. This technology
ticipation in innovation parks. We work closely platform is creating strong synergies between the University
together with the city, canton, federal govern- of Basel, the University Hospital Basel and ETH.
ment and private businesses to make this happen. A new building for student and business projects is being built
In order to develop and strengthen our know- on Hönggerberg campus. It will house existing initiatives such
ledge transfer activities and private sector engage- as the Student Project House and offer space for new projects
ment, the ETH Executive Board will have its that promote entrepreneurialism and collaboration with the
own Vice President for Knowledge Transfer and private sector.
C orporate Relations starting in 2021. Our new Certificate of Advanced Studies (CAS) programme in
Entrepreneurial Leadership in Technology Ventures offers
Lifelong learning: participants with backgrounds in the natural sciences or engin-
new models of continuing e ducation eering essential skills in business administration, strategy and
leadership.
Digitalisation is rapidly changing the world of
work. This development is closely linked to the We offer continuing education programmes so that the Swiss
changing, increasingly individualised learning workforce can meet the challenges of digital transformation.
behaviour of today's and tomorrow's generation. To this end, we will continue developing the School for Con-
Continuing education gives people the oppor- tinuing Education and its research-related, market-oriented
c urriculum.
tunity to secure their livelihoods by adapting
to the needs of the labour market, and it helps Novel concepts and formats for lifelong learning provide sup-
maintain Switzerland's innovative strength and port to graduates throughout their entire careers and also get
competitive advantage. We promote continu- them involved with ETH by providing a platform to contribute
their knowledge and experience.
ing education primarily by expanding our con-
tinuing education programmes, an effort that is
supported by the School for Continuing Edu-
cation. Our continuing education programmes
are closely linked to our research activities and
geared towards the needs of the labour market,
both in terms of content and format.
Enabling
strategies
48 Enabling strategies
Our staff is key to the success of ETH. Thanks to
them, we achieve excellence in research, teach-
ing, knowledge exchange and technology transfer.
They are highly educated, engaged in lifelong
learning and development, and participate in
the success of our institution. Recruiting and
appointing new professors plays an essential role
in the continued development of our teaching
and research activities. In addition, we maintain
modern infrastructure and technologies and offer
efficient, customer-oriented internal services.
We anticipate and adapt to the requirements of
digitalisation on an ongoing basis.
Quality assurance enjoys the highest priority
in all areas at ETH. All members of the ETH com-
munity, whether they work as academics or in
support or administrative roles, strive to achieve
top quality in everything they do. By laying out
ETH Zurich's qualitative goals and the measures
it will take to achieve them, this Strategy and
Development Plan is also part of the universi-
ty's quality strategy. Our quality assurance prin-
ciples, processes and responsibilities for teaching,
research and knowledge transfer are outlined in
a separate report entitled "Guidelines for the
intern al quality assurance system at ETH" (avail-
able in German only).
We are a socially responsible employer that
creates attractive conditions for our employees.
We support our staff in all job functions and at
every level of responsibility. During the 2 021-2024
period, we will place special emphasis on develop-
ing our management's leadership skills, increasing
diversity and promoting equal opportunity.
49 Enabling strategies
Diversity and equal opportunity
Diversity is a source of intellectual creativity, Objectives
especially now that scientific work is increas-
1 We foster a culture of appreciation, respect and inclusion that
ingly collaborative in nature. We want to ensure allows all members of the ETH community to productively
the success of scientific work that is conducted interact on equal footing.
by large interdisciplinary teams from across the
2 We ensure equal opportunities and are working to increase
world. This is why diversity is an important factor
the percentage of women in research and teaching at all
to our success. levels, with emphasis on leadership positions and committee
We want to create an environment for working memberships.
and studying in which all participants experience
3 We are increasing the proportion of female professors by striv-
the same level of appreciation and support. We
ing to fill 40 percent of new professorships with women.
perceive diversity as an opportunity. This also
4 We define inclusion as a task shared by all organisational units
includes making sure that women are involved in
at ETH. In doing so, we follow the principles of accessibility and
a variety of roles on all levels: whether as students,
participation.
doctoral students, professors, or scientific, tech-
nical or administrative staff, having more women
means having more diverse perspectives - which Measures and initiatives
is key to remaining innovative and successful in
In order to increase the percentage of women at all levels - and
the future. Just like at many other leading scien-
especially as professors - we have set aside part of the budget
tific and technical universities, women are under- to create ten additional professorships by 2024, on top of the
represented at all academic career levels at ETH. professorships that were already planned.
For this reason, promoting women is one of our
We address and avoid prejudice of all kinds and raise the ETH
top priorities on every level. We will ensure that
community's awareness of unconscious biases - for instance,
women can realise their potential at ETH. by including the topic in teaching evaluations and as part of the
In 1992, we established the Equal Opportun- professorial appointment process. We also train professors
ities Office, which now goes by the name Equal!. and other managers to be aware of bias in recruitment, pro-
The Equal! office issues an annual Equality Mon- motion, supervision and conflict management.
itoring Report and hosts a variety of events every The Barrier-Free ETH Zurich project, which was launched in
semester. We will continue pursuing the meas- late 2018, is currently underway. This accessibility project
ures outlined in the Gender Action Plan, which aims to eliminate as many barriers as possible to improve
was launched in 2014. We are placing special access to ETH for everyone, regardless of impairment. This
emphasis on the Fix the Leaky Pipeline career extends to students, staff and visitors. "Design for all" is the
development programme, which supports doc- guiding principle, meaning that ETH is aiming for a general
improvement in quality for everyone without erecting new
toral candidates and other young female scientists
barriers.
over the course of their academic careers.
We are strengthening work-life balance. We offer family-
friendly conditions to members of the ETH community and
work to continually develop these conditions.
We pursue a variety of measures to strengthen communication
and togetherness in order to promote multilingualism and the
integration of all ETH members into the community. We offer
new forums for exchange and interaction and encourage
ETH Zurich members from Switzerland and abroad to take our
language courses, which also helps to improve their skills for
the labour market.
50 Enabling strategies
T alent and early-career researchers
Our international positioning is contingent on Objectives
our ability to recruit the most talented people
1 We train early-career researchers and prepare them for
from around the globe, no matter their gender a career in academia or the private sector in a competitive
or sociocultural background. Our students' and global environment.
employees' different perspectives and experi-
2 We aim to systematically expand recruitment, training and
ences are a significant source of our school's
supervision of early-career researchers. In doing so, we will
strength as well as a source of enrichment for the also expand and support the optimal development of our
ETH community. These perspectives and experi- career ecosystem.
ences also create added value when it comes to
3 We foster permeability and mobility between academic and
the global competition for talented people. Our
private sector careers and equip early-career researchers
goal is creating a working environment that can with the skills and knowledge they need for different positions
make use of this potential. in the labour market, both inside and outside academia.
International mobility is a prerequisite for
4 We offer our administrative and technical staff a variety of
academic careers: as academia is international in
development opportunities, enabling them to maintain their
nature, this allows us to acquire new expertise performance and skill development throughout their careers.
and create new collaborative partnerships.
5 We create an inspiring environment that allows for exchange
For this reason, it is crucial to recruit, develop
and interaction among colleagues, academic freedom, and
and build relationships with talented academic
secure access to top-notch infrastructure.
and non-academic staff. While recruiting inter-
national top talent is of central importance, we
must also create excellent conditions to develop
talented researchers from our own degree pro-
grammes, doctoral programmes and post-doc
programmes.
Doctoral studies at ETH Zurich
The doctorate is the first step in a scientific
career in academia or business and lays the
foundation for a successful management career.
Doctoral programmes are our most import-
ant contribution to promoting early-career
researchers. This is why supervising and men-
toring doctoral candidates enjoys the highest
priority. We provide holistic doctoral education
that spans research, technical knowledge, soft
skills and integration into the scientific commu-
nity. Using these principles as a guide, we are
expanding our doctoral education programmes
based on scientific findings, international best
practices, and a dialogue with doctoral student
organisations.
Our doctoral students are selected based on
their proven performance and academic poten-
tial. We give them the chance to join the sci-
entific community by conducting independent
research and to gain experience in teaching.
This provides them with valuable qualifica-
tions for working in different areas later in their
careers.
Experienced researchers act as supervisors to
doctoral students, which plays a decisive role for
success in their doctoral studies. We are expand-
ing our training and support in this area for both
professors as well as doctoral students.
51 Enabling strategies
Postdoctoral researchers Measures and initiatives
Early-career researchers can take several paths: For doctoral programmes, we are introducing new measures
they can pursue academic careers with the goal of in order to improve the supervision of doctoral students. For
becoming a professor, aim for permanent employ- instance, we are developing an orientation programme for
ment within a research group, or take on demand- professors and providing doctoral students with a second
ing positions outside of academia. Early-career mentor/supervisor (in addition to their thesis supervisor) in
researchers in many disciplines decide on their the early stages of their doctorate. In parallel, we are also
implementing strategic measures to support collaboration
future path during their time as postdocs.
between doctoral students and supervisors.
Because the postdoc phase is a major bottleneck
in the academic career trajectory, it is a time of We are intensifying our support for early-career researchers,
great uncertainty for many early-career research- with particular emphasis on diversifying internal research
ers. At the same time, employment opportunities funding instruments and providing sufficient funding for the
ETH Postdoctoral Fellowship programme. These funding
outside academia are limited for postdocs. Bearing
instruments help us recruit outstanding postdoctoral talent.
in mind the heterogeneity of postdocs as a group,
we are systematically expanding our mentoring We are improving the onboarding of new postdocs through
and development efforts for young scientists in various events and training courses and are expanding our
supervising and mentoring initiatives. We are paying special
this phase of their career. We are providing stra-
attention to promoting career development via events that are
tegic continuing education and advice to support
tailored to postdocs. We train supervisors and raise their
postdocs in choosing the right career path at an
awareness of the challenges that are common for academics
early stage: either quickly working to carve out the
on the postdoc level.
kind of academic independence required for an
We are encouraging and devising concepts for mobility within
academic career or trying to establish themselves
ETH as a development opportunity for interested members of
in the job market outside of the university. Here
staff.
we will also need to raise awareness of alterna-
tive career paths and to support postdocs during
transition phases.
Administrative and technical staff
Having qualified administrative and technical
staff with extensive specialised knowledge is key
to ETH's success. Our staff contributes greatly
to achieving excellence in research and teaching.
We are also an important training centre
for vocational and professional education. ETH
trains over 170 apprentices in a wide variety of
professions, which helps Switzerland maintain its
ability to compete as an attractive place to work.
52 Enabling strategies
Leadership and good governance
Employees at all levels of our university are Objectives
skilled and responsible. They deliver top perform- 1 We are developing the leadership skills of our managers and
ance in teaching, research, knowledge transfer academic departments. Leadership skills are systematically
and administrative functions. Students, staff and taken into account as part of the appointment process for new
managers interact on a basis of trust, openness professors and as part of the tenure process.
and respect. Our managers sustain and promote
2 We are strengthening our career development system in order
their employees' motivation and allow them to to identify suitable candidates for managerial posts and stra-
achieve top performance in their fields by giving tegically develop them via training and mentoring programmes.
them trust and autonomy on the job.
3 With regard to corporate governance, we are adjusting struc-
We cultivate a culture of empowerment and
tures, planning processes and decision-making processes in
trust and make space for curiosity and creativity. order to establish leadership as a pillar of ETH Zurich and its
This is our way of promoting critical thinking and culture.
empowering students and staff to develop and
implement innovative ideas that arise at the fore-
front of current knowledge. Leadership respon- Measures and initiatives
sibilities also include teaching good scientific Leadership skills and social skills are evaluation criteria con-
practice. sidered by professorial appointment committees. They shape
This is why we provide targeted training and the committee's recommendation to the President, along with
support to staff and researchers in leadership consideration of the candidate's excellence in teaching and
positions. We are extending the Executive Board research. When interviewing candidates, we also conduct sep-
by creating a new Vice President for Personnel arate panels with students and lecturers.
Development and Leadership in order to cement After professors are appointed, we have various measures in
leadership as an institutional value. place to introduce them to the ETH culture and their new man-
ETH has a code of conduct that guides how agement responsibilities. These measures are complemented
members of the ETH community should inter- by coaching and training programmes.
act and sets out the values that the university Leadership skills and behaviour are aspects that are also
stands for. increasingly taken into account during the tenure process. We
offer leadership workshops to professors to help them with
recruiting, supervising and mentoring doctoral students.
We identify potential managers at an early stage. We are
strengthening our training and mentoring courses and offering
them to all managers commensurate with their level.
We are expanding our contact and advice services for inappro-
priate behaviour by hiring more staff and bringing internal and
external experts on board where necessary.
53 Enabling strategies
International networks, partnerships and alumni
Our international involvement permeates all our Objectives
activities, ranging from training and research to 1 We are strengthening our international networks and visibility
collaboration with alumni and partners all around through a collaborative approach to research. We are mem-
the globe. We are in a position to support indi- bers of selected alliances and partnerships that generate
vidual faculty members' initiatives thanks to our added value for the entire university.
established presence in Singapore and other stra- 2 We promote top performance in research by working together
tegic partnerships and alliances. Our researchers with other researchers with complementary abilities. This
and students work with partners across national primarily occurs through interactions among researchers
borders, and the impact of our research enjoys themselves, thanks to their efforts to continually develop
international visibility. Our global network con- research collaborations with global partners.
sists of universities and research centres, busi- 3 We enter into partnerships with leading universities and
ness partners, international organisations, NGOs up-and-coming institutions in order to provide mutually bene-
and the media and includes thousands of people ficial student exchange opportunities. We ensure that our
all around the world. Our alumni, scientists and students gain experience in a variety of cultural environments
friends use their personal and professional net- while also receiving an excellent education in their chosen
field.
works on behalf of ETH, expanding our visibility
and reach on a global level. 4 We are increasing our involvement in Asia, with a special focus
From a national perspective, one of on China, and are using our strong established presence in
ETH Zurich's key tasks is strengthening Switzer- Singapore as a springboard.
land's international reputation in education, sci- 5 We are expanding our international alumni network and
ence and technology. As a leading member of the strengthening their impact as ambassadors and supporters
international academic community, we are in an for ETH on a global stage.
excellent position to do so. We are internationally
recognised for innovative, original research and
Measures and initiatives
excellent education with global reach. We define
our goals and measures in the context of the glo- We aim to advance our international collaboration activities by
balisation of science, economics, politics and developing and strengthening our networks - particularly
society. those in Europe, North America and Asia, while also looking
towards developments in Africa. By expanding and consolidat-
Our current collaboration with universities
ing the Singapore-ETH Centre, we will solidify our hub for
in Asia is wide-ranging and successful but suf-
research and innovation in Asia.
fers from being rather fragmented. Cooperation
with traditional partner countries such as Japan We work with organisations and platforms that have strong
and Singapore - along with our steadily growing international networks with the aim of boosting ETH's visibility
on the international stage, recruiting talented people, and
cooperation with Chinese partners - is greatly
securing access to funding.
important to us. It is therefore necessary to have
a strategic long-term approach in order to build Switzerland's neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe
effective and mutually beneficial relationships remain our most important partners for collaborative research
and for recruiting students, researchers and professors.
with our partners in Asia.
In North America, we are focusing on building and developing
relationships with universities, businesses in the tech and
start-up space, and philanthropists.
We are raising our profile in Asia in order to recruit the best
minds. In parallel, we are strengthening our intercultural
knowledge and skills in order to facilitate our work with Asian
partners. Thanks to selected partnerships and our role as the
leading house for Switzerland's bilateral cooperation with the
Asia-Pacific region (on behalf of SERI, the State Secretariat for
Education, Research and Innovation), we are enjoying
increased access to data, infrastructure and funding in Asia
for our research and education activities.
We will further develop our global alumni chapters and mobil-
ise our alumni to build new relationships in research and
private industry, intensify exchange, and create opportunities
for our students.
54 Enabling strategies
Infrastructure and resources
Credibility requires us to live up to our principles. Objectives
For this reason, we foster a general culture of sus-
1 We offer modern, cost-effective, needs-based, coordinated
tainability at ETH and apply these principles to assistance for teaching, research, and knowledge exchange
sustainable construction on our campuses. We and technology transfer.
offer our university as a living lab to test the tech-
2 We aim to maintain and expand our excellent and flexible
nical, social and economic aspects of sustainable
infrastructure and manage growth via the use of modern
development and integrate them into our daily technologies.
lives. This extends to the entirety of research,
3 We adhere to the principles of sustainable development by
teaching and employment operations at ETH. By
using our financial resources responsibly and by taking the
constructing and operating sustainable buildings,
environment and resource use into consideration when con-
we are able to promote the health, performance structing, using and operating buildings.
and satisfaction of our students and staff. Infra-
4 We are advancing the digital transformation of the university
structure that is planned, built and maintained
and are actively accompanying all members of the ETH com-
according to these principles is a form of valuable
munity on this journey.
capital over the longer term. With the help of
innovative modern technology, we are creating 5 We live by the principles of a responsible culture of health and
safety.
an efficient, flexible and secure working environ-
ment to meet the needs of everyone at ETH.
Our real estate is a flexible strategic resource
that allows us to fulfil our core missions in teach-
ing, research, knowledge exchange and technol-
ogy transfer. We expand our real estate based
on future academic development, the principles
of sustainability, and the maintenance of our
investments.
ETH's space needs are growing and constantly
changing. Drivers of this trend include the grow-
ing number of students and staff, along with
academic planning needs. There is mounting
pressure on infrastructure, spatial development
and services. This pressure is due to internal
and societal needs with regard to teaching and
research with new technologies, new research
priorities, and new research locations.
The digitalisation of all research areas is
creating more demand for computing power and
requires the ongoing expansion of our data infra-
structure in order to remain globally competi-
tive. The advent of digital technologies has also
transformed teaching. New teaching and learn-
ing methods require an innovative and attract-
ive learning infrastructure as well as access to
cutting-edge information technology. The learn-
ing spaces of the future must therefore be flex-
ible enough to adapt to changing needs and new
technologies.
As digitalisation increasingly penetrates our
society and research becomes more and more
interdisciplinary, it is more important than ever
to have a lively real-life community. For this rea-
son, we see our campuses as a place of formal and
informal exchange between various disciplines
and the public. We invite stakeholders from soci-
ety at large to participate in an active dialogue
55 Enabling strategies
with the ETH community and support these con- Measures and initiatives
versations as an integral part of our real estate and
We will continue expanding teaching infrastructure and ser-
service strategy. We initiate a broad spectrum of vices with a particular emphasis on online exams, modern
social and cultural activities and strive to involve lecture hall infrastructure, rooms for project-based teaching,
the broader population in ETH's campuses and and support for interdisciplinary collaboration.
services through active communication, tours,
As part of our real estate strategy, we will continue developing
events, and other information and discussion our portfolio, especially on the Zentrum and Hönggerberg cam-
sessions. puses at our main Zurich site. Our strategy is to maximise
Safety and security are fundamental parts of building density at our current locations before expanding to
the ETH Zurich culture. All members of the ETH new sites. We are accommodating our rapid growth by enter-
community identify with a culture of safety and ing into short-term rental arrangements, which gives us the
security that spans the spectrum from legal com- flexibility to react quickly to unforeseen developments. We are
developing ways to ensure that there is enough office space
pliance to workplace safety.
even in the face of limited financial resources. Our real estate
planners are working to define space requirements, maximise
density within buildings, and draw up plans such as desk
sharing and multi-space concepts along with other forms of
agile working (mix of teleworking and on-site presence). This
type of planning also applies to the academic departments.
We are making advances in digital transformation, data sci-
ence, research data management, open access and open data
with IT infrastructure that is stable, scalable and operates
under reasonable security conditions. We are increasing our
computing power to meet demand in a cost-effective way.
A harmonised approach to hardware and software helps our
employees get the job done.
When it comes to our library's large, valuable holdings and
collections, we adhere to open science principles and are using
the opportunities presented by digital transformation in order
to create added value for research, teaching and dialogue with
the public. One example is the development of new innovative
models of information management at the ETH Library Lab. We
efficiently tailor what our library and collections offer based
on the needs of our clients. For this reason, we are focusing on
the following three priorities: consistent client focus, holistic
client support, and the establishment of an integrated platform
for information, communication, services and tools.
We offer tailored, future-oriented courses and consulting ser-
vices on safety and security issues in order to help people take
a conscious approach to risks in their teaching, research and
work activities. We are developing evidence-based risk reduc-
tion measures with regard to accident prevention and health
protection.
57 ETH Zurich: more than the sum of its parts
In the spirit of the adage "the whole is more than just the sum of
its parts", ETH Zurich bundles and leverages its individual strengths
in order to face the global challenges of the future. Thanks to our
combination of basic research and interdisciplinary collaboration
in strategic action areas, we are able to drive research forward
in service of society. We also follow this principle when it comes to
teaching, combining knowledge from various disciplines in order
to provide our students with a well-rounded education. This is an
important contribution to helping society meet the growing need for
qualified graduates.
Even this strategy document was created in the tradition of
ETH Zurich's participative culture: it is the result of a broad, bottom-up
process that involved the Strategy Commission, the four university
groups (faculty, non-professorial scientific staff, students, and tech-
nical and administrative staff), and the academic departments.
The process of drafting our strategy for the 2021-2024 period helped
us analyse the landscape in which ETH is embedded along with the
opportunities and challenges that the future will bring. This involved
critical discussion between all stakeholders throughout the univer -
sity as well as an internal consultation process. Thanks to the reflection
and participation of the entire ETH community, we were able to
develop a strategy that reflects the true complexity and diversity of
our institution - showing that ETH Zurich is indeed more than just
the sum of its parts.
Publisher: ETH Zurich
Design and collages: Vollkorn Kollektiv
Content and concept: Joël Mesot,
Sarah Springman, Detlef Günther,
Robert Perich, Ueli Weidmann
Strategy Commission: Micha Bigler,
Johann Blatter, Joachim Buhmann,
Adrienne Grêt-Regamey,
Andreas Hierlemann, Zoe Marie Jonassen,
Georg von Krogh, Ulrike Kutay,
Sacha Menz, Lukas Novotny,
Frank Schimmelfennig,
Effy Vayena, Angelika Wittek
Authors: Julie Cantalou, Christofer Hierold,
Anita Buchli, Roman Klinger
With contributions from: Silvio Bonaccio,
Christine Bratrich, Jürg Brunnschweiler,
Simone Bucher, Katharina Hagenauer,
Anders Hagström, Johannes Heck,
Fiona Könz, Gertrud Lindner, Daniel Müller,
Sonja Negovetic, Christoph Niedermann,
Katharina Poiger, Adrian Rohner,
Robert Schikowski, Stephan Zimmermann,
Marc Zürcher
Editing: Sabine Goldhahn
English translation: Gena Olson
Printing: Kromer Print AG
Binding: Buchbinderei Grollimund AG
Circulation: 1,200
This report has been produced in German
and translated into English.
Only the German version is binding.
Images for the collages: ETH Zurich,
iStock, Alamy, depositphotos, gettyimages,
sketchfab (3dmaster_bg); 3D renderings on
pages 34 and 46: Vollkorn Kollektiv
© ETH Zurich, January 2021
To order copies: ETH Zurich,
office-president@ethz.ch
Contact: ETH Zurich, President's Office,
office-president@ethz.ch