Since our founding in 1907, Imperial has
sought to be not only a world-leading university,
but a world-changing one. We have combined
our tremendous strength in science, engineering,
medicine and business (STEMB) with scientific
discovery, innovation and entrepreneurship,
to create real-world impact.
Every day our students, staff and partners come
together to interrogate the forces that shape our
world. We do it so we can use that understanding
to tackle the biggest challenges facing humanity
and shape a better future. Sometimes, and this is
one of those times, this means interrogating the
forces that shape the future of our own university.
That is why, one year ago, we came together to
ask ourselves a question: "How do we maximise
our potential as a force for good in the world?"
This document addresses that question;
an actionable plan that unlocks more of the power
of science to serve humanity. This is how we shape
the future - for our students, our community,
our planet and everyone who calls it home.
The strategy reflects the purpose and priorities
of our staff, students and global Imperial community.
It is the result of an engaging and inspiring
consultation both within and outside Imperial.
We thank everyone who contributed their big
ideas and bold ambition to this process.
I hope you will be as inspired as I am by what we
have achieved so far and all we will achieve together.
President Hugh Brady
All we have
And through our new Imperial Global network
achieved, and all we will achieve greater global collaboration
to meet global grand challenges.
we can imagine
To further energise our vibrant enterprise
ecosystem, we are creating a new venture fund,
Our strategy, Science for Humanity, is unashamedly Science Capital Imperial. And we will deepen
ambitious in seeking to maximise Imperial's potential our partnerships with government, industry, our
as a force for good in the world. NHS partners, local communities and other
stakeholders to establish the Imperial WestTech
It builds on the university's strong disciplinary Corridor, to maximise our collective potential
foundations, highly collaborative and collegial as a powerful engine for innovation, job creation
culture, passion for innovation, proven convening and inclusive growth.
power, extensive global partnerships, incredible
network of alumni, friends and supporters and And underpinning everything that we do will
world top ten ranking. be Sustainable Imperial - our university-wide
commitment to play a leading role in the global
Our strategy highlights a number of cross-institutional fight against climate change, biodiversity loss
initiatives that will consolidate our position among and pollution.
the world's leading institutions tackling global
grand challenges. Our founding mission was 'to be useful';
an understated precis of all that our exceptional
The Imperial Class of 2030 is an ambitious teaching, research and innovation have made
multi-pronged programme to nurture the most and continue to make possible.
talented, the most enterprising and the most diverse
graduating class we have ever had the privilege to But before we can usefully change the world,
serve. This will be in part driven by new investments we must first seek to understand it. Our strategy
in our Imperial Inspires Scholarship Programme, engages with, and animates, this foundational idea:
our digital and virtual learning environment and that Imperial's shared purpose is one of inquiry
our campuses, including the next phase of our and action. A scientific mindset that encourages
White City Deep Tech Campus. imagination, celebrates precision, demands patience,
insists on humility, rewards accidents, steels our
We will launch a major recruitment drive, the backs and makes us brave.
Imperial Future Leaders Campaign and we will
invest in leadership development and skills for In science, as in strategy, there is no easy prophecy
our diverse community, including a new Imperial and no shortcut to progress. An understanding -
Future Leaders Academy for early-career staff. sharpened, deepened, or totally new - is the first
and only precondition.
We will introduce the new Imperial Institute of
Extended Learning, which will help future-proof While much of our direction in this document will
careers, businesses and communities by providing feel new, our destination remains unchanged: to
the advanced skills training and values-driven become a global home for everyone who believes
leadership needed to thrive in a tech-enabled world. in the power of science to discover, to create, to
explain and to transform. To understand more of the
We will create four new cross-institutional universe and improve the lives of more people in it.
Schools of Convergence Science to bring intense
focus, interrogation and research impact to the Imagine that.
emergent forces shaping our future at unprecedented
scale: (1) climate, energy and sustainability; (2) human
and artificial intelligence (AI); (3) health, medtech
and robotics; (4) space, security science
and telecommunications.
2 3
.supmaC
hceT
peeD
ytiC
etihW
eht
gnireenignE
lacidemoiB
rof
buH
nerU
leahciM
riS
:thgiR
Imperial today Imperial tomorrow Imperial together Great support
A world-leading academic endeavour must provide
everyone with the opportunities and tools they
need to thrive. We will support our staff to deliver
Leading science This strategy imagines a path through an To ensure our strategy will have a meaningful an inspirational education and to take the inception
We are a science-based university with a difference. unpredictable world that is facing unprecedented and enduring impact, we know we must create of a research idea through to publication and
Our enduring STEMB focus, and the exceptional challenges. It is a blueprint to ensure we continue opportunities for everyone in our community to translation into real-world application.
disciplinary foundations that underpin it, are the to maximise our potential as a force for good in the fulfil their potential - always guided by our values
reason for our continued high-impact trajectory and world, to deepen our rare and specific competencies, and behaviours: Respect, Collaboration, Excellence, We will give our students a consistently inspiring,
place among the top ten universities in the world. and to serve students and society in the uncertainty Innovation and Integrity. tailored and supportive experience from application
of tomorrow. through to their lifelong interactions with Imperial
Interdisciplinary research Great people as part of our alumni community. We will foster
We are an ecosystem that thrives on connection After all, as one of the world's leading research We will continue to attract, nurture and support a culture of innovation and practice of continuous
and collaboration. The complexity of the challenges universities, we are purpose-built to engage with world-class talent from everywhere. Our strength improvement where colleagues are empowered to
before us demands a truly integrated interdisciplinary uncertainty, and to summon our strengths against it. comes from celebrating and harnessing the diversity combine their strengths collectively to turn great
approach. At Imperial, we forge links between faculties, of our community where everyone contributes their ideas into an even better service.
departments, disciplines, industries, governments This is how we prepare for the expected and the own perspective, experience and skills so that together
and more because we know that greater possibility unexpected. This is how we rigorously fulfil our we can excel in the delivery of our shared mission.
for advancement is found at those intersections. educational mission and our research potential.
It is how we shape the future. And it begins with We will champion an inclusive culture and invest
Inspiring students three core aims. in people so that they are inspired and equipped to
We are a welcoming home for scientific imagination; unleash their potential. We will build and maintain
a place where exceptional minds are enabled with 1. Enabling talent a culture centred on the wellbeing, growth and
inspiration, resource and freedom so that they might Our strategy will develop the people and skills belonging of our community. We will create a diverse
look deeper, dream further and ask bigger questions. the world needs now and into the future. We will and vibrant community where our values are evident
work to attract, nurture and champion the best to all, and we are recognised as innovators in every
Meaningful impact local, national and global talent wherever they are, aspect of our work.
We have the spirit of a 117-year-old startup with and to empower them with everything they need
an agility and orientation to the future that belies to make a meaningful difference. Great environment
our age and heritage. Here you will find a culture We will create an integrated human, physical
of discovery, innovation and entrepreneurial thinking, 2. Powering research and digital ecosystem that fosters and facilitates
where breakthrough science is chased, translated Our strategy is a plan to strengthen Imperial's collaboration and community and promotes
and applied at incredible speed and with enabling environment for discovery, innovation discovery, learning and innovation. And we will
transformative impact. and impact. We will create an even more deliver sustainable campuses to meet our 2040
deeply connected knowledge community and Net Zero Carbon commitments.
A trusted partner interdisciplinary research powerhouse that will
We are an ally of progress, seen by many of the meet the scale and urgency of the moment The pace of technological change has never been
world's leading knowledge and technology-driven and respond with intelligence, responsibility faster. We will leverage the digital landscape and
organisations as a cultivator of exceptional talent and agility to everything that comes next. increased digital innovation to grasp new opportunities
and future leaders, and trusted as the partner that are essential to the achievement of our world-class
of choice for research, innovation and impact. 3. Amplifying impact research and education. We will create a world-class
Our strategy will help to accelerate Imperial digital experience for students. Our staff will have
The legacy of London towards, and scale the impact of, new discoveries, the tools and facilities they need to undertake
We are a global hub in a global city. Our work inventions and ideas, and position us as a trusted world-changing research.
shapes the world and our community reflects it, convenor and partner for knowledge and tech
brought together by the undeniable gravitational organisations across the globe. We will look beyond
pull of London's energy, creativity, diversity, our London campuses to our wider network and
economy and opportunity. wider responsibility, honouring our social and
civic purpose, in London for the world.
4 5
Imperial numbers 9 Campuses 2040
Silwood Park
South Kensington
White City
Hammersmith Hospital
Charing Cross Hospital
Chelsea and Westminster Hospital
North West London Hospitals
Royal Brompton Hospital
St Mary's Hospital
All Imperial campuses to be Net Zero
1907 192 4 Faculties 6th 8th
Engineering
Natural Sciences
Medicine
Business School
Royal College of Science, Royal School of Mines
and City & Guilds College combined to form
Imperial College London
in the world QS World in the world Times Higher
University Rankings Education World University
1997
Countries Imperial researchers have collaborators in 2024 Rankings 2024
250,000 284 14 3
Imperial College School of Medicine formed,
the product of a series of mergers with leading
London medical schools. It was to become
the Faculty of Medicine.
startups over the past five years Nobel Laureates Fields Medallists
2003 £800m
Queen's Anniversary Prize 2021
University of the Year (The Times and Sunday
Times Good University Guide) 2022
UK TEF Gold Award 2023
Imperial Business School was given Faculty status Alumni in 213 countries investment raised over the past five years Athena Swan Silver Award
23,000 8,000 £1.3bn 4* REF
University income: nearly £1.3bn
£500m
Students Greater proportion of world-leading research
12,000 Undergraduates and 11,000 Postgraduates Staff Research income: more than £500m than any other UK university
6 7
Imperial Inspires
Sparking the spirit of discovery early
Imperial Inspires Scholarship Programme
Our goal: We strive to be a world leader in attracting Next: We are acutely aware that there remain "I t is our ambition to inspire, Sharing scientific
young minds to STEMB and supporting them on students across the UK and around the world who
build and nurture the world's
their STEMB journey through life. still face barriers in accessing an Imperial education. imagination with
most diverse STEMB student
Now: Imperial has a proud record of innovative, Our new Imperial Inspires Scholarship Programme body, and to bring more of the everyone
inclusive and impactful approaches to engage will transform our ability to support underrepresented
young people and underserved communities in groups, here in the UK and abroad, to enter into and world to STEMB and STEMB
STEMB. We have been relentless in our efforts to excel in our STEMB degree programmes. The Invention Rooms at our White City Deep
to more of the world."
remove barriers to STEMB education and careers, Tech Campus are where the local community,
sparking the spirit of scientific discovery earlier We will take Imperial medical education beyond Imperial staff and students come together to
and helping people realise their ambitions. our London campuses with the opening of the new Professor Maggie Dallman, imagine, innovate and create. With cutting-edge
Pears Cumbria School of Medicine, our partnership Associate-Provost (Academic Partnerships) facilities and plenty of inspiration and guidance,
Beyond our support for aspiring scientists, with the University of Cumbria - training more and Vice-President (International) the Invention Rooms inspire the next generation
engineers, and medics, our extensive public doctors in an underserved region of the UK. of inventors, entrepreneurs and makers from
engagement activities bring the wider public closer the local area and beyond.
to the scientific imagination central to our work. And we will capitalise on the potential of Imperial
The flagship annual Great Exhibition Road Festival Global's network of international hubs to broaden our Imperial's Mathematics School, in partnership
welcomes over 50,000 visitors as Imperial staff, outreach programmes and engage underrepresented with Woodhouse College in London, encourages
students and partners showcase the potential communities all over the world (page 24). and supports school students to pursue fulfilling
of science to shape a better future. careers in science. The School is focused on
The result of these initiatives will see us bring the increasing diversity in STEMB, making a
brightest minds to the questions we ask at Imperial, significant contribution towards reversing
no matter who they are, where they come from or underrepresentation of specific groups in
their financial resources. Because that is how we will academia and the workplace. It seeks to raise
get the best answers. As any scientist knows, the numeracy skills among school students in
most creative ecosystems are the most diverse. collaboration with partner organisations in
London, bringing lifelong benefits to young
people, their families and their communities.
8 9
.supmaC
hceT
peeD
ytiC
etihW
eht
bulC
ecneicS
yadrutaS
eht
tsitneics
gniddub
:thgiR
"Every year, our
Imperial Class Opportunities
talented and highly- for student
entrepreneurs
skilled graduates
of 2030
Our Enterprise Lab supports more than 2,000
move around the
students each year with mentoring, access to
experts in residence, development workshops and
world into careers in more. The goal is to develop their entrepreneurial
mindset, skills and networks, help them test new
From those with great expertise, to those with great potential
ideas and launch products, services and ventures
and beyond STEMB
Imperial Class of 2030 that address real-world problems.
- this is the principal The Venture Catalyst Challenge is our most
prestigious entrepreneurship prize, each year
Our goal: The Imperial Class of 2030 will be the Imperial's I-Explore Programme and through new supporting 25 student and postdoc ventures
means by which
most talented, the most enterprising and the most advanced skills and leadership modules offered under five themes: Health and Wellbeing, Energy
diverse we have ever had the privilege to serve. by the Imperial Institute of Extended Learning and Environment, Creative and Consumer, AI and
(page 14). We will expand the Imperial Enterprise Imperial makes its Robotics, and Digital and Finance. The programme
Now: We are proud to host talented, high-performing Lab to meet increasing student demand, and the sees student teams pitch their ideas to a panel
and ambitious students from across the globe, launch of Imperial's four Schools of Convergence of industry leaders for a chance to win a share of
global impact."
often from backgrounds where the path to academic Science will boost our portfolio of taught the £100,000 prize fund - the biggest such fund
excellence has not been straightforward. Our Master's programmes. of any UK-based university entrepreneurship
teaching is founded in strong, core disciplines and is competition. Previous participants have gone on
Professor Peter Haynes, Vice-Provost
research-rich and intellectually stretching. Our taught We will transform Imperial's digital education to gain global recognition and raise significant
(Education and Student Experience)
Master's programmes delivers specialist education infrastructure, including our Digital Media Lab funding, including the founders of Notpla who
at the leading edge of STEMB. And we encourage all and Virtual Learning Environment, and build on won the Earthshot prize for their seaweed-based
students to broaden their educational experience by new initiatives such as ViRSE to incorporate biodegradable alternative to plastic. Notpla was
exploring other interests such as modern languages, virtual reality and other digital technologies co-founded by Imperial students who met while
art and music. into our teaching. studying Innovation Design Engineering, a joint
course by Imperial and the Royal College of Art.
Imperial has a strong track record of digital innovation We will make major investments in our physical
- including our swift transition to online learning at infrastructure, including the development of the The WE Innovate programme recognises
the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. And because Sherfield Student Hub, upgrades at our Silwood Park up to 25 outstanding women-led startups from
our work doesn't finish when students graduate, eco-campus and our London NHS clinical campuses. Imperial every year. It is the first university
we ensure employability and the advanced skills programme of its type in the UK. The programme
they need for a tech-enabled future are embedded We will deliver the next phase of our White City has an annual prize fund, with many teams
across our curricula. Because of these qualities and Deep Tech Campus, including a major new going on to raise significant venture funding
many more, Imperial is proud to have recently been interdisciplinary centre co-locating mathematical, post-competition, including Matrix, the startup
awarded the Queen's Anniversary Prize, the Times and data and computer sciences, AI and machine learning, developing a self-use cervical screening tool
Sunday Times University of the Year and a Gold Award and business education, with new state-of-the-art and diagnosis device supported by AI.
in the national Teaching Excellence Framework. research facilities for convergence science and
co-created industry research and partnerships.
Next: The Imperial Class of 2030 will be educated
in a welcoming, supportive and appropriately We will review and further invest in our student
challenging environment where disciplinary excellence, residential, sports and recreation portfolio, and
interdisciplinary working and entrepreneurship roll out our new whole-institution Mental Health
training are seamlessly integrated and supported by and Wellbeing Strategy.
state-of-the-art digital and physical infrastructure
and an engaging extracurricular experience. Together, these plans will ensure that the Imperial
Class of 2030 has the freedom to imagine, the
Students will be able explore opportunities for greater encouragement to challenge and an environment
interdisciplinarity through further development of to flourish in.
10 11
,xirtaM
rednuof
eht
aksvokniM
anayillitS
ruenerpertne
hcet
htlaeh
dna
sunmula
lairepmI
:thgiR
.3202
etavonnI
ezirp
pot
eht
koot
taht
loot
tnemssessa
lacivrec
esu-fles
eht
gnikrow
,oiduA
evisremmI
wolleF
hcraeseR
,slewuaP
nahoJ
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
baL
emodrednuhT
eht
ngiseD
ecneirepxE
oiduA
Imperial Custom Sustainability
Programme with Bain
& Company
Empowers
Imperial partnered with consulting firm Bain & Company to
roll out an Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) training
programme across the company's global network. It was thoughtfully
designed by academic experts from Imperial's Business School,
Grantham Institute and Centre for Environmental Policy together
with leaders from Bain's own sustainability practice. Aligning with
Advanced skills for a tech-enabled future
the firm's commitment to integrate and elevate ESG in all client
Imperial Institute of Extended Learning work, the partnership highlights the urgency of ESG competence
in business leadership and equips professionals with the training
they need to steer clients towards a more sustainable future.
Our goal: We will help to future-proof careers, meet their skills and business development needs.
businesses and communities by providing the For both individuals and businesses, the Imperial
advanced skills training and values-driven leadership Institute of Extended Learning will build on
needed to thrive in a tech-enabled world. our position at the forefront of STEMB to ensure
participants are equipped with the knowledge, skills
Now: For more than a century, Imperial's evolving and leadership capability to grasp new opportunities
research-rich educational programmes have inspired, in rapidly advancing fields such as AI, cleantech,
stretched and encouraged many of the world's deep tech, quantum, engineering biology and
STEMB leaders. In the last ten years, they have climate science.
grown to include many exciting new interdisciplinary
programmes in response to scientific advances, the The Imperial Institute of Extended Learning
emergence of new global challenges and changing will reinforce Imperial's role as a world-changing
workplace skills needs. Our graduates have long university that's as future-ready as our learners.
been sought after for their talent, solution-focused
mindset and track record of creating innovations
of real significance.
Next: If humanity is to thrive in a science- and
tech-driven world, places of higher learning must
act with speed, agility and foresight. That is why
we will expand beyond degree programmes to
"T he Imperial Institute of
offer flexible and lifelong advanced STEMB training
through the establishment of a new Imperial Extended Learning is our
Institute of Extended Learning. The Institute
response to the rapid pace
will leverage the disciplinary excellence within
our academic departments and the unparalleled of global change and will
interdisciplinary capacity within our new Schools
equip people everywhere
of Convergence Science (page 28), to provide
advanced skills training for individuals, businesses, and at every life stage with
governments and other knowledge organisations.
the agility, knowledge and
For individual learners, Imperial's cutting edge insight to first prepare for
short courses will be used to unlock new career
the future, and then shape it."
opportunities or stacked over time to achieve a
formal degree award. For knowledge organisations,
we will work with them to customise STEMB-led Leila Guerra, Associate Provost
short courses and leadership programmes to (Digital Lifelong Learning)
14 15
emmargorp
tnempoleveD
sllikS
labolG
eht
gnitneserp
yeksolCcM
miJ
:thgiR
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
loohcS
ssenisuB
s'lairepmI
Imperial Innovates Startup success Innovation
at Imperial network
→ Co-founded by an Imperial student, Improbable Enterprise Lab is a dedicated support service
pioneers new ways to connect, play, create and for thousands of students, staff and alumni who
build value across interconnected virtual worlds. have an idea they believe in, and the drive to
turn it into a reality.
→ Co-founded by an Imperial student, Tractable
uses computer vision and deep learning to Advanced Hackspace brings together inventive
speed up the time taken to process motor minds from all backgrounds, disciplines and
insurance claims, by automating the appraisal levels of expertise to collaborate, experiment
of visual damage. and prototype the future.
→ Co-founded by an Imperial academic, Imperial White City Incubator is a state-of-the-
Deep tech entrepreneurship for next generation businesses
PsiQuantum is a quantum computer company art wet lab incubation space and training facility
Science Capital Imperial aiming to build the world's first commercially to help startup companies. It welcomes spinouts
viable one million qubit quantum computer. and non-Imperial ventures in order to maximise
innovation and collaboration. Since 2006,
→ Founded by Imperial academics, Ceres Power Imperial's incubator companies have raised
Our goal: We will scale up our world-class innovation capital and proof-of-concept funding to realise grew from an Imperial spinout founded to over £1bn in investment and grant funding.
ecosystem for world-changing impact. the full potential of their businesses. And through develop fuel cell research and was named the
our new Imperial Global network, we will access UK's most valuable clean technology company. Undaunted is a partnership between Imperial
Now: We pride ourselves on our startup culture at and engage other innovation ecosystems around and the Royal Institution to create new routes
Imperial, nurturing the supportive and interdisciplinary the world (page 24). → Founded by Imperial students, Magic Pony into climate entrepreneurship. It is a founding
environment that science entrepreneurs need Technology was an AI startup using machine member of Cleantech for UK, a coalition
to thrive. That enabling environment includes Together, these complementary efforts will see learning to build improved systems for visual of investors and venture builders launched
Imperial's Enterprise Lab, our Institute for Deep Tech Imperial grow more high-impact enterprises, serve processing. It was acquired by X, formerly at Imperial by Bill Gates and Rishi Sunak
Entrepreneurship and our network of hackspaces, as a trusted partner for industry, and act as a powerful Twitter, to enhance the social media company's in February 2023.
incubators and accelerators. Our network of business catalyst for UK economic growth. live and video offerings.
angels supports our students and staff as they DTPrime is backed by the Institute for Deep
turn their ideas into prototypes, their prototypes → Imperial spinout Nexeon is a global leader Tech Entrepreneurship and helps Imperial staff
into startups, their startups into scaleups, and their in silicon anode material development for take their science- and engineering-intensive
scaleups into world-changing businesses. lithium-ion batteries, and is set to make a major commercial ideas to 'cross the chasm' from
"S cience Capital Imperial contribution to the future of rechargeable commercial concepts to high-value, investable
Next: We have reshaped our spinout formation battery technology. propositions.
is a natural next step in
process, Imperial Founders Choice, which offers
both entrepreneurs and investors clear, fair and our work to make Imperial → Founded by an Imperial Master's student, MedtechONE is a centre of excellence to support
competitive rewards. Koalaa has developed a range of soft prosthetic MedTech entrepreneurs across Imperial.
a global centre of gravity
limbs that are light, comfortable and suitable
The next phase of our White City Deep Tech for scientific innovation even for very young children. MedTech SuperConnector empowers early-
Campus will allow us to increase our capacity to career researchers to translate academic insights
and entrepreneurship.
host more startups, scaleups, and industry partners from the arts and sciences into early-stage
and co-locate with other knowledge organisations. It will fuel experimentation medical technologies.
The development of the Imperial WestTech
and enable Imperial's
Corridor (page 32), in partnership with local and AI SuperConnector is here to find and support
national government, our NHS partners and business visionaries to turn their the next generation of UK-based AI startups.
community, will create the kind of vibrant innovation
big ideas into trailblazing
ecosystem required to compete for major
international investment. companies that will
drive progress."
With support from alumni and investors, we will
establish Science Capital Imperial, a new venture See Imperial's innovation ecosystem
fund to provide Imperial's entrepreneurs access to Professor Ian Walmsley, Provost on the next page.
16 17
Innovation
Health
Innovation
Prize Greenhouse
DT Prime
ecosystem Institute for Global Accelerator Undaunted
Health Innovation
Institute for
DeepTech
Entrepreneurship
Investment
How To
Office Hours
Masterclasses
WE Innovate
I-Hub
Imperial
Experts-in- Investment Investor
Global Online Residence Services Network
Hackstarter Challenge Modules (XiR)
Lab
(GCL) SynbiCITE
Investment
Portal
Hack Idea Imperial
Surgeries Surgeries
Venture Healthcare
Enterprise Catalyst Startup Treks Technologies
Challenge Capability
Lab (VCC) Connector
(HTCC)
Imperial College
LevelUP
Idea Imperial Enterprise Fund
Advanced
Challenge Venture
Mentoring
Hackspace Scale Space
Community MedTech Service
Collider SuperConnector Incubation (IVMS)
Services Q-Legal
Hack
Demo Day
Innovating
African Imperial BE
Universities AI
(IAU) SuperConnector GreenTech
London
I-X Demo Day Legal
Collaborative
(GTLC)
White City
Incubator
Social Impact
Day
Wicked
Innovation
Acceleration Coaching MedTech
Accelerator
Labs
Ideas To Impact
Challenge MedTechONE
Ghandi Centre for
Jawdrop Inclusive Innovation Sip and Solve
Events
MedTech MedTech
Foundation Collaborative
Scaling a venture
Exploring an idea
18 19
Imperial Talent
Attracting and nurturing the next generation of leaders
Imperial Future Leaders Academy
Our goal: Imperial will provide sector-leading Next: The new Imperial Future Leaders Academy Supporting
opportunities for early-career STEMB staff, from will bring together Imperial's skilled organisational
first year PhD students and postdoctoral fellows development professionals with academic and early-career
to those taking on their first position in academia, external experts to create a new suite of innovative
industry or policy. academic management and leadership development researchers
programmes for our early-career staff. They will
"People make this
Now: We prioritise the career development of all receive training in how to lead high-performing,
our staff through a number of initiatives, including and increasingly multi-site and multinational teams, Imperial's Centre for Quantum Engineering,
the Technician Commitment, the Postdoc and Fellows as well as operational, finance and risk management place. Our focus is on Science and Technology (QuEST) is collaborating
Development Centre, the Career Development Skills skills. Core to its mission, the Imperial Future with central specialist support teams including
offer, the People and Organisational Development Leaders Academy will foster a dynamic, supportive the Postdoctoral Fellows Development Centre,
inviting the brightest
Team, and the Academic Leadership Development and stretching environment that spans disciplines, Imperial Policy Forum and Enterprise Division
Programme. Our academic, professional, technical fosters teamwork and encourages personal and to bring new approaches to upskilling its early-
and operational leaders work in partnership to create professional growth. minds and most career researchers. From Imperial Policy Forum
and sustain an environment of high-quality teaching, Workshops and visits to Parliament to better
research and impact. The Imperial Future Leaders Academy will integrate understand how to inform policy making, to
exciting researchers
the development opportunities we provide PhD entrepreneurship masterclasses to move ideas
Today, the pace of change in our workplaces and students through to postdoctoral fellows and to the scale up phase for a quantum-enabled
our world is driving changes in how Imperial supports increase their awareness of the full range of to the Imperial family, economy, and seed funding and support to enable
and develops people in their careers here. Some of fulfilling career options available to STEMB talent, early-career researchers to make competitive
the most notable developments we're responding to including academic, policy, advisory, industry, independent funding proposals. These new
and ensuring they
include hybrid working, the mainstreaming of new media and regulatory. approaches have inspired us to be even more
technologies and AI, the importance of interdisciplinarity ambitious in our work to raise the quality of career
and multiprofessional teamwork to leading science, Imperial will begin a major recruitment drive, find a supportive development support for all those researchers
the increasing internationalisation of scientific research, the Imperial Future Leaders Campaign, to further who are just starting out.
and the need to promote and support non-linear career boost our capabilities in priority research areas.
culture of belonging
paths with movement between academia, industry Working with our academic departments and linked
and other knowledge sectors. to our four new Schools of Convergence Science,
we will collaborate with partners to develop new and development
opportunities for top early-career talent to do more
to address the grand challenges facing humanity
when they get here."
and our planet.
Harbhajan Brar, Director of Human Resources
20 21
esruoc
dlefi
seiradnuoB
metsysocE
tneduts
ygolocE
raey
dnoces
:poT
.supmaC-oce
kraP
doowliS
eht
22 23
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
baL
esirpretnE
lairepmI
:tfeL
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
tnalP
toliP
erutpaC
nobraC
:thgiR
Imperial Global Equitable vaccine
access and
development
Nearly one in five infants across the world does
not have access to vaccines, and almost one third
of deaths among children under five could be
prevented through the use of vaccines. Imperial
Greater global collaboration to meet global grand challenges
is leading two major vaccine manufacturing hubs
Imperial Global to develop new technologies that can be quickly,
easily and affordably manufactured in the places
most vulnerable to infectious disease.
Our goal: We will be a convenor, collaborator and activity profiles that build on existing partnerships The Chanjo Hub is an African-led collaboration
partner of choice to facilitate the flow of ideas, talent and local needs and opportunities. designed to catalyze local research and
and innovation to tackle grand global challenges. innovation ecosystems in Kenya and Ghana
Imperial Global Singapore is a new presence in order to deliver vaccines for endemic and
Now: We are proud to be one of the world's most on Singapore's CREATE campus initially exploring epidemic diseases in the region. The Future
international universities. Our global collaborations, the cyber security of medical devices. It will allow Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub is focused
discoveries and networks are transforming lives and us to develop significant new research and translation on disruptive technology that allows developing
creating opportunity in the UK and around the world. programmes with partners across South East countries to produce tailored vaccines within 100
Our global community brings people together to Asia, and support recruitment and career days of an identified outbreak or threat. Novel
contribute diverse perspectives, new ideas and fresh development activities. manufacturing programmes are currently being
approaches to solving complex problems. Our global developed with partners in Vietnam, Bangladesh
network of alumni, friends and collaborators amplify Imperial Global Ghana builds on established and South Africa.
our reach and impact. partnerships in medical diagnostics, sustainable
cities and entrepreneurship training. It will be a
International collaboration is in Imperial's DNA knowledge hub that develops major programmes
and at the core of our research: our academics have across West Africa to increase the number, quality
forged research collaborations in over 190 countries. and impact of equitable STEMB partnerships with "There is a critical need for local
We enjoy strong bilateral research partnerships African stakeholders. It underlines our commitment
capacity to rapidly respond to
with universities and institutes including Technical to building long-term, equitable partnerships
University of Munich, Nanyang Technological on the Continent. known and unknown threats in
University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
key areas like infectious disease.
African Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Indian Imperial Global USA will strengthen our research
Institute of Science Bangalore, Tsinghua University partnerships with US academic and industrial The Imperial Global network
and Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique. partners and support our growing US alumni network
will bring us closer to the people,
and student recruitment opportunities.
Next: Imperial Global will bring even more of our partners and potential solutions.
work to the world, and more of the world to our work, Imperial Global India will build Imperial's profile
This includes the critical area
amplifying our impact through a network of hubs in and partnerships in an emerging scientific and
strategic global cities. This network will demonstrate industrial superpower. The hub will strengthen of vaccine access where a
our commitment to building long-term collaborations the important UK-India knowledge bridge to
Ghana centre can support our
with a diverse range of partners and stakeholders, enable STEMB talent to drive forward research,
foster new high-impact partnerships with industry, education and innovation in key areas including major Africa-led Chanjo Hub
government and knowledge organisations, and clean technology, fintech and biosciences.
to accelerate global access to
give us the opportunity to develop deeper links
with our alumni. Imperial Global will enhance our academic vaccinations and treatments."
partnerships, access to talent, enterprise and
Our first hubs will be in Singapore, Ghana, the USA engagement. Most importantly, it will become
and India. They will share characteristics that draw a core part of our efforts to apply science for Professor Faith Osier, Chair,
on Imperial's unique strengths but have different the good of humanity. Immunology and Vaccinology
24 25
ytinummI
dna
noitcefnI
lasocuM
riahC
,kcottahS
niboR
rosseforP
:thgiR
.supmaC
latipsoH
s'yraM
eht
Imperial Global
Imperial is proud to work with over 10,000 partner
institutions across 192 countries. The partners
highlighted are examples of where we have
London
cross-faculty strategic collaboration agreements
in place. The Imperial Global Network will facilitate
Tsinghua
the development of more and deeper partnerships
University
across the world.
University
of Tokyo
Massachusetts
Technical
Institute of
University
Technology Centre National of Munich
(MIT) de la Recherche (TUM) Tokyo Institute of
Technology
Scientifique
(CNRS)
USA
India
Ghana
Indian Institute
of Science
(Bangalore) Singapore
University
of Sao Paolo University
African Institute of Ghana
of Mathematical
Nanyang
Sciences (AIMS)
Technological
University (NTU)
26 27
Imperial Futures AI at Imperial
Artificial intelligence (AI) technologies are
ushering in a transformative era, offering
unparalleled potential to reshape industries and
society. Imperial has the combined power of over
1,000 researchers across all our faculties and
disciplines working to accelerate the safe and
productive development and deployment of AI.
Imperial's Data Science Institute provides
foundational expertise in data science and
Convergence science of unprecedented scale engineering. Our new digital foundry I-X is
driving transformations in AI, data science and
for unprecedented 21st century challenges
digital technologies to address interdisciplinary
Four new Schools of Convergence Science challenges and support novel industrial
collaborations, and is part of the Schmidt Futures
Fellowship programme supporting the next
generation of leaders in AI.
Our goal: To create a new paradigm for scientific → Human and artificial intelligence;
exploration where the integration of disciplines, → Health, MedTech and robotics; Imperial is leading the development of the
convening of cross-sectoral partnerships and → Climate, energy and sustainability; and next generation of AI skills through our two
harnessing of new models of research stimulate → Space, security and telecommunications. Centres for Doctoral Training (AI for Health;
innovation and lead to scientific progress. and AI for Digital Healthcare) and half the
These Schools of Convergence Science will Directors of Science and Innovation at the UK's
Now: Imperial's multidisciplinary Centres and Networks provide a new portal for external partners, supporters national institute for data science and AI, the
of Excellence galvanise a critical mass of researchers and stakeholders, including more effective routes "Imperial Futures will Alan Turing Institute, will be from Imperial.
across disciplines to answer a challenge. Our Global to Imperial's research, education and innovation.
Challenge Institutes have driven multidisciplinary They will amplify Imperial's convening power, Our AI ecosystem is strengthened by research
enable breakthroughs
approaches, engaged our external partners and advisory and thought leadership - boosting our collaborations with industry leaders such as GSK,
strengthened the impact of our research. Our newest capacity to serve as a trusted partner for local Thomson Reuters and Amazon Web Services
Centre for Sectoral Economic Performance - a joint and national governments, industry, third sector by convergence and and supports AI-based startups across a range of
initiative between Imperial's Faculty of Engineering organisations and civil society. They will provide sectors including healthcare and drug discovery,
and Business School - will focus on productivity within a sandpit for brainstorming, co-creation and hosting energy systems, autonomous vehicles, financial
systems approaches
the UK's existing and emerging high-value industries large interdisciplinary research programmes. services and education technologies.
across engineering, life sciences, and data science. They will adapt, develop and trial new models
of scientific exploration. - imagining and Additionally, our Science Policy Fellowship
Imperial has a long history of pioneering interdisciplinary scheme brings policy makers working on AI across
research in new fields. Our Department for Biomedical The new Schools will provide our PhD students government together with the deep technical and
creating the kind of
Engineering in the Sir Michael Uren Hub at our with unparalleled opportunities for convergence regulatory expertise of our researchers.
White City Campus integrates engineering and science to complement the support they receive in
biomedical sciences with clinical practice to improve their host departments. And they will act as a useful world that future
human health. The Dyson School of Design Engineering lens through which to horizon-scan the educational
fuses design thinking and engineering knowledge and landscape for new opportunities for future skills
global citizens need:
practice within a culture of innovation to help solve and training needs.
global problems with an emphasis on sustainability,
entrepreneurship and societal impact. Building deep collaborations with internal and sustainable, resilient,
external stakeholders, each new School will work
Next: Over the next two years, Imperial will launch closely with industry and other knowledge partners,
healthy, equitable."
four cross-cutting Schools of Convergence and with university and private sector accelerators,
Science that build on our disciplinary strengths to build high-velocity, high-impact pathways from
and interdisciplinary culture to create deeply the lab to the real world.
integrated research communities at unprecedented Professor Mary Ryan, Vice-Provost
scale to deliver societal impact in key areas: (Research and Enterprise)
28 29
30 31
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
hcraeser
erutpac
elcitrap
eryt
gnikrow
,tneduts
gnireenignE
lacinahceM
raey
htruof
,nitsoK
ellehciM
:tfeL
.eterC
ssorca
detroppusnu
kert
noitidepxe
stneduts
etaudargrednU
:thgiR
Imperial WestTech The Corridor will capitalise on five major
innovation assets:
→ Albertopolis, home to Imperial's South Kensington
Campus and many of London's leading arts, cultural
Corridor and scientific institutions, museums and galleries.
→ The rapidly growing Paddington Life Sciences
innovation cluster centred around Imperial's
St Mary's Hospital Campus.
→ The White City Innovation District, host to Imperial's
White City Deep Tech Campus and Hammersmith
Hospital Health Sciences Campus.
→ Old Oak and Park Royal, designated as one of
London's largest development zones and the planned
home to London's largest rail and tube transport hub.
Become a catalyst for investment, jobs and inclusive growth
Imperial WestTech Corridor → Imperial's Silwood Park eco-campus, with
its leading programmes and partnerships in
Old Oak and environmental science, biodiversity and sustainability.
Park Royal
Our goal: We will convene a unique set of innovation ecosystem in the London Borough of
innovation assets to create a vibrant new ecosystem Hammersmith and Fulham - the White City Innovation
of globally competitive scale that is a powerful District - demonstrating how a university can work
engine for investment, inclusive economic growth in partnership with its surrounding community.
Paddington
and job creation.
Life Sciences
Next: The Imperial WestTech Corridor will position White City
Innovation
Now: Our South Kensington Campus is home to Imperial as the engine at the heart of a thriving
District
world-leading Faculties of Engineering and Natural innovation ecosystem. It represents a shared goal
Sciences, and a magnet for top global research talent. to create both a world-leading hub for innovation,
Imperial's Faculty of Medicine, created just 26 years entrepreneurship and technological advancement,
Albertopolis
ago, has brought together some of London's world- and a global beacon of scientific imagination.
renowned medical institutions and NHS campuses to
create a global powerhouse ranked amongst the best And West London has all the characteristics Silwood
Park
in the world for medical and public health research. needed to deliver a globally competitive innovation
Imperial's Business School has strategically positioned ecosystem. These include exceptional anchor
itself at the interface of STEM and business education research institutions, a diverse and productive
and research, challenging old paradigms to imagine population, access to investment capital, high-quality
a thriving, equitable and sustainable business future. existing and planned infrastructure including major
And our Silwood Park eco-campus is at the forefront transport links, and a political environment that
of biodiversity science and policy. supports planned urban development and
inclusive growth.
With the rapid development of our new White City
Deep Tech Campus, we have been able to create Unlocking the potential of the Imperial WestTech
interdisciplinary research programmes of scale Corridor will require a collective strategy involving
in areas such as AI, molecular sciences, medtech, the widest range of stakeholders. And its success
engineering biology and climate science located will be a model for urban transformation and
alongside a growing ecosystem of incubators, economic growth all over the world.
accelerators, startups, scaleups, and industry
partnerships. The next phase of development will see This defining opportunity will not be realised by
further expansion in mathematics, data and computer Imperial alone. Collaboration of this scale requires
sciences, AI and machine learning and business. It is an ambitious convener to demonstrate commitment
the anchor of a larger regeneration project and and impact - and that convener is Imperial.
32 33
34 35
.supmaC
hceT
peeD
ytiC
etihW
eht
)baL
kSM(
baL
lateleksolucsuM
eht
,etaicossA
hcraeseR
,cevilsaM
ymA
:tfeL
.supmaC
hceT
peeD
ytiC
etihW
eht
buH
hcraeseR
secneicS
raluceloM
eht
etiuS
tnemerusaeM
tneligA
eht
,naicinhceT
,neyugN
annaiD
:thgiR
34 35
Sustainable Grantham Institute
Supported by the Grantham Foundation for the
Protection of the Environment, the Grantham
Imperial Institute at Imperial is a leading authority on
climate and environmental science, and a
global centre of excellence for research and
education on climate change. The Grantham
Institute moves the world towards effective
action on climate change and the environment
by advancing discovery, converting innovations
Towards net zero and further
into applications, training future leaders
Sustainable Imperial and communicating academic knowledge
to businesses, industry and policymakers.
Our goal: We will set a global benchmark for university literacy to advocate, influence and lead in the fight
sustainability, nurturing graduates who understand against climate change and its impacts. The Imperial
and advocate for climate science, supporting our Institute of Extended Learning will equip individuals
researchers to investigate and respond to planetary and businesses with the skills and business models
challenges and leading by example in our activities needed to deploy new technologies towards
and on our campuses. a net zero future.
Now: Few issues unite our Imperial community With a focus on climate, sustainability and resilience,
with such determination and urgency as our desire one of our new Schools of Convergence Science
to address the interlinked existential challenges of (page 28) will create a new portal to Imperial expertise
climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution. and a research community of formidable scale to
imagine and test new approaches, technologies and
Imperial offers a wide variety of education solutions. And we will make our climate expertise
programmes in climate-related science, finance, accessible to a wider community of global policy
technologies and policy. Our research portfolio makers by providing on-campus deep-dive climate
is among the strongest in the world. Through our Science Policy Fellowships.
partnerships, including the Rio Tinto Centre for
Future Materials, the Tata Steel Centre for Innovation The new Imperial Zero Index, along with our Socially
in Sustainable Design and Manufacturing and the Responsible Investment Policy, will allow us to pursue
Hitachi Centre for Decarbonisation and Natural an 'engagement for change' ethos with fossil fuel
Climate Solutions, we are using our expertise and companies - only engaging where our research is
research to accelerate a sustainable transformation strongly aligned to decarbonisation and if our partner
for industry and society. demonstrates a credible strategic commitment to
achieving net zero by 2050. "W e will deliver evidence-based
Imperial experts are working with governments,
solutions, embrace new
industry and civil society to advocate for urgent We will make huge investments to transform our
change, including Professor Jim Skea, Professor in campuses and working practices. The university's technologies, challenge
Sustainable Energy at Imperial and the current chair of Decarbonisation Plan is a comprehensive roadmap
conventional thinking and
the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. to reach net zero for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by
2040 at the latest. Alongside this our Sustainable open new debate, driven by
Next: By 2025, Sustainable Imperial will be Procurement Policy will enable us to minimise
our commitment to solving
established as an Imperial-wide strategy to deliver our Scope 3 emissions in collaboration with
evidence-based solutions, embrace new technologies, our suppliers. the urgent and complex
challenge conventional thinking and open new debate
challenges facing our planet."
in our efforts to solve this growing global crisis. Sustainable Imperial is a remarkable opportunity for
the university to live its commitment to environmental
The Imperial Class of 2030 programme (page 10) sustainability and responsible climate governance Professor Nigel Brandon, Chair,
will equip all our graduates with the climate science within, and far beyond, our campus. Imperial Sustainability Committee
36 37
secneicS
larutaN
ytlucaF
eht
rerutceL
roineS
,etieL-sknaB
anitsirC
:thgiR
.supmac-oce
s'lairepmI
,kraP
doowliS
"T his strategy harnesses Imperial's mission
to understand the natural world and to use
that understanding to improve the world.
It builds on our academic excellence
to accelerate toward new discoveries,
invent new technologies, develop new skills,
bridge even more widely across disciplines
and expand access to everyone.
It positions us to address the challenges
of realising a sustainable, healthy, intelligent,
and resilient future for humanity. We will
continue to engage people across
the world, inspiring their imagination
with the possibilities that science offers,
and we will seek to drive new ideas into
transformative impact. This is our great
opportunity, and Imperial's great strength."
Professor Ian Walmsley, Provost
3388 39
gninnacS
artcepS
eht
gnikrow
yornoC
yllehS
:tfeL
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
epocsorciM
nortcelE
noissimsnarT
Thank you
The plans laid out here are the result of
a comprehensive consultation period, and
together reflect the purpose and priorities
of staff, students, alumni and many other
valued members of the Imperial community.
We thank everyone who contributed their
energy, ideas and ambition to this process.
We look forward to the journey to 2030
and beyond.
www.imperial.ac.uk
.supmaC
notgnisneK
htuoS
eht
weiv
lairea
:tfeL