CIGETARTS NALP
2025 2030
Foreword
Plan on a page
Our foundations
Accelerating our growth
Maximising our impact
Shaping our future
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF COUNTRY
La Trobe University acknowledges our campuses are
located on the lands of many Traditional Custodians in
Victoria and New South Wales. We recognise their ongoing
connection to the land and value their unique contribution
to the University and wider Australian society. La Trobe
University is committed to providing opportunities for
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, both as
individuals and communities, through teaching, learning,
research and partnerships across all our campuses.
Wurundjeri Dja Dja Wurrung Dhudhuroa/Waywurru Latji Latji Yorta Yorta Gadigal
Melbourne Bendigo Albury-Wodonga Mildura Shepparton Sydney
(Bundoora and City)
At La Trobe, impact is more than
a promise - it's our purpose.
La Trobe is a recognised leader in meet Australia's future skills needs, the proportion
health, science, and education. of university educated Australians aged 25 to 34
These fields shape our future. Through needs to increase from 45% to 55% by 2050. This
innovative curriculum, industry-led projects, target will not be achieved without raising the
and work-integrated learning, our students participation in higher education by Australians
develop the practical skills, critical thinking, from low socio-economic backgrounds, rural and
and leadership qualities needed to be future regional Australia, people living with a disability,
leaders and changemakers. Our approach and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.
integrates emerging technologies and sustainable La Trobe University will energetically advance
thinking into every level of learning and research this 'skills through equity' agenda. We are
to drive transformation that matters. investing heavily in course innovations and
Our Strategic Plan 2025-2030 maintains new teaching facilities to produce the future
our focus on achieving real-world impact skilled workforce Australia needs, especially
by becoming a bigger university, brilliant in health and education. We will continue to
at what we do, and fit for the future. invest in scholarships and programs to support
people from equity backgrounds to come to
We stay true to our founding purpose to expand
university and succeed in their studies.
the life-changing economic, social, and cultural
opportunities afforded by higher education to Our refreshed Strategic Plan aims to build
everyone, and especially people from equity on our investments and successes so
backgrounds. We strive to enable people to we can have even more impact for the
live fulfilling lives with purpose and make a people and communities we serve.
difference in their communities - including in
This Strategic Plan is organised around four themes:
the communities surrounding our four regional
- Our foundations
campuses in Albury-Wodonga, Bendigo, Mildura
and Shepparton. We are proud that a quarter - Accelerating our growth
of our students have a regional, rural or remote - Maximising our impact
background and over 40% of our students are
- Shaping our future
the first in their family to study at university.
Our people, our values, and our partners are the
We proudly pursue academic excellence. La Trobe
very foundations upon which our impact and
University is ranked in the top 1% of universities
successes are built. We will accelerate our growth
in the world1. Our Strategic Plan outlines how
so that more people can benefit from a university
we will continue to drive innovation in research
education, and to increase our capacity to invest in
through focused investment in world-class
world-class teaching and research infrastructure.
capabilities and close partnerships with industry.
We will transform our curriculum to ensure This, in turn, will enable us to maximise our impact
excellence in higher education, and enhance for our students, our communities, and our country,
student experience and employability. We will working closely with business, industry, public
work with partners across our entire campus service, and non-for-profit partners. We will shape
network to ensure that all our campuses are safe our future by leveraging artificial intelligence to
and inclusive, open to all learners, and hubs to innovate in everything we do, by growing our
support business innovation and jobs growth. short course portfolio to support lifelong learning,
and by continuing a major transformation of
The Australian Universities Accord reinforces
our Bundoora campus into a University City.
the vital role of the higher education sector in
delivering 'the knowledge, skills and research' La Trobe University is proud of our past and the
Australia needs to be 'an economically prosperous, impact we have achieved. We are invested in our
socially equitable and environmentally sustainable staff, our partners, and most of all our students.
nation.'2 According to Jobs and Skills Australia, And we are determined to shape a future that is
half of new jobs in the coming decade to 2033 will better for Australia, our region, and the world.
require a university qualification.3 Therefore, to
DROWEROF
OUR
VISION
We are a university where inclusion and innovation
produce real-world impact - through world-class
research, strong industry partnerships, expanding
access to higher education, and relentless focus
on student success and career outcomes.
OUR PEOPLE OUR PARTNERS OUR VALUES & CULTURE
ACCELERATING MAXIMISING SHAPING
OUR GROWTH OUR IMPACT OUR FUTURE
Health innovation Research excellence La Trobe University City
Regional campuses Industry engagement Lifelong learning
Education innovation Student experience AI-first
Online and short courses Equity, inclusivity,
cohesion, safety
International growth
Indigenous and
community engagement
The Hon. John Brumby Professor Theo Farrell
Chancellor Vice-Chancellor
1. Times Higher Education (THE), 2024, World University Rankings 2025; Consejo and President
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), 2024, Ranking Web of Universities
2. The Australian Government, The Australian Universities Accord: Final Report, 2023, p.1.
3. Jobs and Skills Australia, Annual Jobs and Skills Report 2023, p.18
2 3
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
SNOITADNUOF
RUO
OUR PEOPLE, OUR
VALUES, AND OUR
PARTNERS ARE
THE FOUNDATIONS
OF OUR SUCCESS
Our people Our values Our partners
People are the heart of our strategy Our values underline everything Our partners are essential for
- our success is driven by the we do. We are proud to be a realising our ambitions.
leadership, accountability, capabilities, university founded on and driven We will deepen our partnerships with
and commitment of our people. We by social justice - hence our industry to translate our research
will create an environment where vision to be a university where into real-world impact, and to
innovation, high-performance, inclusion and innovation produce ensure that we continue to produce
and collaboration can thrive. real-world impact. We will continue graduates who are career ready.
La Trobe is dedicated to fostering a to promote and live our cultural We will work with our vocational
diverse, inclusive, and psychologically qualities to foster accountability, educational partners to support
safe workplace where every individual connectedness, innovation and care. lifelong learning, especially
feels valued, and supported, and has the in Melbourne's outer north
opportunity to succeed. We will work and regional Australia.
together as a university community WE ARE
We will collaborate with a range
to challenge existing ways of working, ACCOUNTABLE
of regional partners to advance
take meaningful action, and achieve
our ambitions for growth and
positive cultural, policy and practice
innovation for the regional
change. Our work will be informed
communities we serve.
by the expertise and experiences of
La Trobe people from all backgrounds, We will leverage and grow our
including Indigenous, CALD, LGBTIQ+ international partnerships
and those living with a disability. to increase the reach of our
WE ARE
education and research, build
Attracting, retaining, and developing CONNECTED
international collaborations, and
top talent is crucial for driving
have greater global impact.
academic excellence and societal
impact. We will foster a culture of We will actively engage with, respect,
high performance that is supportive empower, and uplift Indigenous
and truly enabling. Leadership is communities and remain committed
key to unlocking excellence across to advancing the aspirations of
our university and we will invest Voice, Treaty, and Truth, articulated in
in leaders at all levels across our WE ARE the Uluru Statement from the Heart.
INNOVATIVE
organisation. We will establish a Importantly, we will also take a
Leadership Academy to provide an partnership approach to working
integrated and strategically aligned with our student body to ensure
program of training and resources to that all students are heard and can
develop our La Trobe leaders. We will contribute to shaping a university
also support our people to advance experience that meets their needs.
in their careers through professional
development, shared performance WE
expectations, and authentic mentoring. CARE
By 2030 we will
establish a La Trobe
Leadership Academy
4 5
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
Partnering with TAFEs to address skills needs
La Trobe enjoys long-standing and close partnerships with Victorian TAFEs. With our regional TAFE
partners, we have established the Northern Victorian Education Partnership to increase participation
in post-school education across northern Victoria and respond to regional workforce needs.
We are partnering to deliver Suburban Study Hub facilities at Melbourne Polytechnic's Epping campus
and opposite Bendigo Kangan Institute's campus in Broadmeadows, to enable more students to participate
and succeed in higher education.
La Trobe and Kangan Institute are also working together to innovate health and care training in Melbourne's
north, combining La Trobe's expertise with state-of-the-art facilities at the Kangan Institute's new
Health and Community Centre in Broadmeadows.
We will explore further opportunities to collaborate with TAFE partners to support the tertiary education
needs of Melbourne's northern growth corridor, and to provide innovative lifelong learning courses.
SNOITADNUOF
RUO
6 7
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
GNITARELECCA HTWORG
RUO
GROWTH HELPS
Growth is crucial for the future success of our university and will ensure
that we remain competitive in one of the world's most dynamic higher
education ecosystems. To ensure our financial sustainability, by 2030,
US TO HAVE
we will increase our revenue by over a third to surpass $1.2 billion.
Growing our financial resources will enable us to invest in world-class research
capabilities, teaching innovations and facilities, enhanced student support,
MORE IMPACT
and further upgrades to infrastructure across our entire campus network.
For our students, this additional revenue will enable us to provide more scholarships,
even better support services, and contemporary, digitally-enabled teaching spaces.
We will pursue five major initiatives to drive growth:
Health innovation Regional campuses
Our $170 million investment in La Trobe is investing significantly We will leverage research
our Health Innovation Program in new teaching facilities and capabilities across our entire
will deliver new clinical teaching infrastructure across our regional network to increase industry
facilities across our entire campus campus network. We recently partnerships in the health and care,
network, as well as curriculum delivered $30 million worth of new agriculture and food, and digital
innovations and enhanced state-of-the-art teaching facilities sectors - driving regional economic
support for clinical placements. at our Albury-Wodonga, Mildura, and impact and societal benefits. We
This program will enable us to Shepparton campuses - doubling will increase the vibrancy of our
increase our student numbers in our capacity to educate nurses for regional campuses by increasing
nursing, dentistry and oral health, these regional communities. Under their accessibility and use by local
and allied health by 40% with our Health Innovation Program, we communities in Albury, Wodonga,
the goal of producing over 5,000 will invest a further $43 million in Bendigo, Mildura and Shepparton.
graduates annually by 2030. This will our Bendigo campus, to upgrade By 2030, we aim to double the
put La Trobe University on track to our nursing and allied health clinical number of industry co-located
be the largest producer of graduates teaching facilities and establish partners and have at least ten
for the Australian health workforce. the largest dental and oral health community organisations operating
clinical training facility in Australia. out of our regional campuses.
Building on these investments,
By 2030 we will
we will grow our enrolments and
By 2030 we will
produce over
impact in regional Australia. We will
increase enrolments
5,000 health
design and deliver a contemporary
at our regional
graduates annually
education offering with increased
campuses by 60%
flexibility that appeals to modern
learners who live and work in By 2030 we
regional communities. The offering will double the
will encompass on-campus, online, number of industry
and hybrid options, and will include co-located partners
non-award short courses aligned
with regional, rural, and remote
industry needs. Our overall goal is to
increase enrolments at our regional
campuses by 60% to 6,600 full-time
equivalent students by 2030.
8 9
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
Sustainability
We are helping to create a sustainable and resilient future by
embedding sustainability into every aspect of university life.
Our regional campuses are all certified carbon neutral and we are
well on track to achieve our University-wide Net Zero target by 2029.
Our urban solar farm, the largest in Victoria, became operational in
2025 - providing sustainable energy supply for the University.
Our work to improve biodiversity will continue through long-term
commitments such as the Nangak Tamboree eco-corridor and By 2029 we will
Wildlife Sanctuary at our Bundoora campus, supported by our achieve our
partnership with the Wurundjeri Woi-wurrung Narrup Rangers. University-wide
We will grow sustainability capabilities through our research net zero target
(e.g. La Trobe Climate Change Adaptation Lab) and education programs.
GNITARELECCA HTWORG
RUO
Education innovation Online and short courses International growth
The La Trobe School of Education Over the past five years, La Trobe In 2022, we commenced a program
is at the forefront of important has invested in our capacity to of work called 'InterGrowth' to
changes in teaching practice. develop and deliver high-quality improve our resilience to fluctuations
La Trobe research from our Science online subjects and courses. This in international student onshore
of Language and Reading (SOLAR) focused effort has seen La Trobe enrolments. Our aim was to
Lab on evidence-based approaches Online become our second-largest increase the diversity of source
to learning and reading is driving 'campus', serving learners across countries, strengthen our quality
reforms to Federal and State policy. the country - particularly from controls to improve integrity, and
La Trobe's award-winning Nexus regional and remote communities. to offer a sector-leading service
program offers a sector-best We will expand our high-quality to international student applicants
employment-based pathway to online course offerings in areas and agents. With these measures
teacher training. Backed by Federal of high demand for employers now in place, the next phase of
funding and with support from other and for people seeking to upskill work will focus on expanding
partners, this program is being for career success. By 2030, La Trobe's offshore presence
expanded into New South Wales. we aim to increase enrolments by increasing our education
Building on the success of to La Trobe Online by 50% and and research collaborations
these programs, we will invest in increase revenue from short courses with key overseas partners.
education innovation to support sevenfold to over $20 million. This will include pursuing a much
school transformations at scale greater presence and engagement
and dramatically improve learning with India, a country that offers
By 2030 we will
outcomes for their students. immense opportunity for growth,
increase enrolments La Trobe urban solar farm
innovation, and impact. This will
to La Trobe Online at our Melbourne campus.
be a major strategic initiative to
By 2030 we will by 50% and increase
develop our global brand, build
support school revenue from short
offshore academic and research
transformations courses sevenfold
capabilities, foster in-country
at scale to to over $20 million
industry partnerships, and deliver on
dramatically improve
our mission to expand life-changing
learning outcomes
opportunities for higher education.
By 2030 we will
pursue a much
greater presence and
engagement with India
10 11
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
GNISIMIXAM TCAPMI
RUO
IMPACT IS MORE
We exist to have impact on the world. We seek to discover, share,
and apply knowledge to make the world a better place for all.
Our success in advancing the UN Sustainable Development
THAN JUST A
Goals is globally recognised. We are ranked 20th in the
world and 1st in Australia for our work on food security
and we also rank in the world's top 50 for our work on
PROMISE, IT'S
both gender equality and good health and wellbeing.1
Our refreshed 2025-2030 Strategic Plan will focus on several
OUR PURPOSE exciting initiatives to enable us to achieve even more impact
through research, education, and community engagement.
Research excellence
and innovation
Our core research mission is to The La Trobe Institute for Molecular
conduct high-quality, impactful and Science will drive opportunities By 2030 we will
globally recognised research, and in digital and synthetic biology, increase our research
to support innovation that pushes mRNA therapeutics, and biosensing. income by 60%
forward the frontiers of science and It will take a multi-disciplinary to $165 million
addresses pressing societal needs. and community-led approach
By 2030 we will open We will create a sustainable research to innovation, for example to
a new innovation
program that drives innovation ensure that sensor technologies
centre on our
and supports excellence across are designed to address the
Bundoora campus
La Trobe's broad discipline base, inequalities faced by rural and
while concentrating our investment remote communities. We will
in areas of strength to deliver impact grow our health and care research
at scale in health and wellbeing, and institute to support the challenges
sustainable agriculture and food. facing the care economy, to build
We will increase research income clinical capability, and create
by 60% to $165 million by 2030. equitable health solutions for all.
We will build an environment of Our researchers will work with
research excellence that attracts, local, regional, and global industry,
develops, and retains a diverse community, government and
and inclusive research workforce academic partners promote
and enables them to succeed. equitable development, drive
Our research will be conducted economic growth, and create jobs in
responsibly, ethically and with the communities we serve. We will
integrity. Through investment support our students, researchers,
in our flagship institutes and and partners to translate their
major initiatives, we will support research, commercialise IP and
more researchers to develop spin-out new companies, and
their careers in the context of help connect those start-up
large concentrations of research businesses to overseas markets
excellence, resourcing, and through global innovation corridors.
quality infrastructure, especially To support this ambition, we will
in health and the sciences. open a new innovation centre on
our Bundoora campus, integrating
With expanded capabilities in
our Digital Innovation Hub, Bio
agrifood science, the La Trobe
Innovation Hub, and La Trobe
Institute for Sustainable Agriculture
Accelerator Program, and will
and Food is taking a multi-sector
work in unison with industry-led
'paddock-to-gut' approach
incubators to curate collaboration
to delivering solutions for the
and an entrepreneurial culture.
production of sustainable, nutritious
food in a resource and climate-
constrained world.
1. Times Higher Education (THE), 2025, Impact Rankings 2025
12 13
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
Safe and inclusive Indigenous and Extending our impact
campuses Community Engagement through philanthropy
We will work in partnership with We will continue to develop The generosity of many hundreds
students, staff, and our community collaborative and reciprocal of community members, staff,
to embed universal and inclusive relationships with the communities trusts, and foundations has made
design and cultural capability across that surround our campuses, a big difference to the lives of our
our curriculum and support services. enrich scholarship, research and students in need - supporting them
We will work with our community creative activities, enhance our to access the transformative power
to develop an anti-racism plan curriculum, teaching and learning, of higher education. Philanthropic
and ensure our campuses are safe offer the community our campus gifts have also enabled us to
spaces for all students and staff. We amenities, and promote thought significantly extend the impact of
will take a leadership role in tackling leadership and public engagement. our research, including into autism,
gender-based and sexual violence We will build authentic grassroots stroke treatment and rural health.
through our Respect@LaTrobe partnerships and collaborate with By 2030, we will have exceeded
campaign and through our research Indigenous communities to deepen our 2027 target of $200 million
and advocacy with government and the connection of Indigenous secured in philanthropic funding.
community. By 2030, we will have cultures, knowledges, and ways of We will expand the availability
successfully implemented La Trobe's knowing and being to our curriculum, of scholarships to students who
Sexual Harm Prevention and research, processes and physical need it most, including for 1,000
Response Action Plan 2023-2026 spaces. We will deliver and build students undertaking on-campus
and will be progressing the next upon the La Trobe Indigenous and hybrid courses at our regional
phase of actions to eliminate Strategy 2022-2030 and equip campuses. We will also create an
gender-based violence and sexual our staff and students to engage enduring legacy by establishing and
harm across our campus network. with Indigenous understandings raising funds for an endowment
across their teaching, research, that, over time, will offer support for
and professional practices. every La Trobe student in need.
We will leverage our four regional We will continue to nurture a
campuses to serve as community vibrant culture of giving within our
hubs for innovation, education, and University. By 2030, we aim to have
collaboration. In doing so, we will among the highest of staff-giving
partner with local industries and rates in the higher education sector.
services, governments, schools,
community organisations, Traditional
By 2030 we will
Owners and Indigenous groups.
have exceeded our
Our inclusive approach will expand
2027 target of $200
community access to resources
million secured in
and increase opportunities to
philanthropic funding
stimulate regional development
and prosperity for the regional
communities we serve.
By 2030 we will deliver
and build upon the
La Trobe Indigenous
Strategy 2022-2030
GNISIMIXAM TCAPMI
RUO
Student experience
and employability
We will transform our educational Under our Education2030 program,
model and curriculum to create we will embed work-integrated By 2030 we aim to
easy-to-navigate courses that learning across our curriculum and be first in Victoria for
scaffold industry-relevant create meaningful experiences for student satisfaction
contemporary skills and enable students to connect with industry
By 2030 every La Trobe
our students to balance study, through industry placements
student will experience
work, community, and family or projects in every course.
work-integrated
commitments. We are proud to be We know that being and feeling
learning
ranked first in Victoria for employer connected is highly important
satisfaction with our graduates. to our students. We will launch By 2030 we will launch
We aim also to be first in Victoria La Trobe Connect to transform La Trobe Connect to
for student satisfaction by 2030. the way our students engage with transform the way our
Flexibility will remain a hallmark of their study, peers, and support students engage with
the La Trobe student experience services. Our students will enjoy a their study, peers, and
and we will expand the availability seamless experience across all our support services
of StudyFlexTM subjects and courses, campuses and online. We will design
supporting students to self-manage our services, engagement, and
their study program. We will take support to maximise opportunity
an equity-first approach to the for students to connect in ways and
design of our courses, pathways to at times that are responsive to their
education, and support services, needs. By prioritising the student
to enable all students to succeed. voice and working in partnership
Building on the sector-leading with students, La Trobe Connect
success of our Career Ready will create a truly student-first
AdvantageTM program, which experience and deliver an inclusive
reached 20,000 students in 2024, approach to supporting student
we will make employability another transition, retention, and completion.
distinctive feature of the student
experience at La Trobe.
La Trobe students in one of the
state-of-the-art glasshouses
at our Melbourne campus.
14 15
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
Thought leadership and public engagement
Our university has a proud tradition of thought leadership and public engagement, with La Trobe
producing some of Australia's finest public intellectuals, leading and influencing discussion, and
debate on issues of national and global relevance. In 2022, we created an Australian-first role of
'Professor of Public Engagement' to help strengthen this foundation and build capacity within
our academic community to advance engaged scholarship.
We will continue to stimulate discussion and debate on critical policy and social issues through
public events, commentary and exhibitions, and by publishing high-quality scholarship for a
general audience through La Trobe University Press.
Our research centres will inform evidence-based policy development in health, education, agriculture,
technology, and security. Our social science, humanities, and legal experts will play a vital role in building
public understanding of contemporary society, including on social justice issues, technological
advancements, and geopolitical shifts that are rapidly reshaping the world.
Through the work of the La Trobe Art Institute and our strategic partnerships with cultural institutions,
we will make a dynamic contribution to the intellectual and cultural life of the communities we serve.
GNISIMIXAM TCAPMI
RUO
Panel discussion featuring La Trobe
academics and partners for La Trobe's
partnership with The Australian Ballet
on their performance of 'Oscar'.
16 17
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
WE'RE DRIVEN
We look forward to the future with confidence and a strong sense of purpose
in our vision where inclusion and innovation produce real-world impact.
Our research seeks to harness science and technology for the
BY PURPOSE
betterment of humanity, and to build knowledge that enriches
our societies and makes sense of our changing world.
AND A BELIEF Our education programs seek to upskill and enable people to live
their best lives and thereby reduce inequities in our society.
Our engagement with partners helps us to have more impact and to
IN A BETTER
make meaningful contributions to the communities we serve. Through
all these ways, our university will shape a better future for all.
TOMORROW
RUO
GNIPAHS
ERUTUF
La Trobe University City Lifelong learning
La Trobe is committed to a The pace of technological change with industry partners to design
multi-decade $5 billion vision to and the extension of working lives is learning that meets workforce
transform our Bundoora campus driving a huge increase in demand development needs, and by 2030
into a dynamic, mixed-use city for lifelong learning. In the coming we will launch a best-in-sector
for Melbourne's north. At its core decade, demand for online-delivered offer to La Trobe alumni to support
will be a research and innovation short courses is expected to double their lifelong learning needs.
ecosystem, accelerating industry as we enter an era in which workers We will integrate micro-credentials
partnerships and economic will need to iteratively upskill. across our award course portfolio
development, leveraging our Much of this demand is currently and develop seamless pathways
strengths in health innovation, being met by professional bodies, across VET and university
sustainable agriculture and food, employability services, and study. We will innovate mobile-
and digital transformation. This EdTech companies, which could delivered, bite-sized, and gamified
ecosystem will generate greatly in the coming decade overtake formats to maximise learner
increased opportunities for research universities as the largest providers engagement and progression.
translation and commercialisation, of flexible post-school learning.
as well as work-integrated Building on the growth of our
learning and employability short course portfolio, our By 2030 we will launch
outcomes for our students. La Trobe Professional program a best-in-sector offer
for La Trobe alumni to
La Trobe University City will also will significantly increase and
support their lifelong
encompass four connected widen the range of short-form
learning needs
villages providing residences for credentialed learning experiences to
up to 15,000 people, providing a maximise flexibility for professional
culturally vibrant, urban experience learners. We will work closely
supported by excellent public
spaces, sports and community
facilities, public transport, and
other amenities. We will showcase
technology-enabled and
ecologically sustainable city living.
The project will create over 30,000
high-value jobs and over $700
million in value for Victoria by 2040.
18 19
La Trobe University 2025-2030 Strategic Plan
Artificial intelligence
Artificial Intelligence (AI) promises better prepare our students for
to revolutionise our world with their AI-futures and ensure that By 2030 all staff
potential to unlock over $20 trillion we are the university of choice at La Trobe will be
in global economic value. La Trobe for employers seeking AI-skilled accessing and using
will embrace an AI-first mindset talent. We will use AI to transform AI tools routinely and
so that our university is future-fit our operations to provide more AI will be integrated in
to support our partners, students, personalised and more efficient all courses to support
and communities to thrive in an services for staff and students. student learning
age of AI. We are committed to Our AI strategy will focus on
responsible AI adoption - ensuring supporting our people to develop
ethical considerations, transparency, their AI skills and realise benefits in
and accountability are at the core how they work. Its implementation
of how we embrace and use AI. will be accelerated through our
Building on our existing AI research strategic partnership with Microsoft
expertise, we will set industry and CyberCX. By 2030, all staff
standards for the responsible at La Trobe will be accessing and
use of AI in scientific discovery, using AI tools routinely and AI
knowledge transfer and research will be integrated in all courses
commercialisation, and learning to support student learning.
and teaching. We will integrate
AI across our course portfolio to
AI and medical innovation
The Australian Centre for AI in Medical Innovation, launched in 2024 and powered by a dedicated
Nvidia DGX H200 supercomputer, will use state-of-the-art high performance AI computing to support
medical research institutes, health organisations, and industry through research and workforce
development, ensuring Victoria's world-leading medical research ecosystem maintains pace with global
standards and opportunities as AI capabilities develop. Together with BioNTech's new clinical-scale
manufacturing mRNA facility at our Bundoora campus, the Olivia Newton John Cancer Research
Institute, and the La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science, the University is creating an ecosystem in
Melbourne's north to drive innovation in therapeutic treatments to fight cancer and other diseases.
GNIPAHS ERUTUF
RUO
La Trobe students in the
Digital Innovation Hub at
our Melbourne campus.
La Trobe University is a registered provider under the
Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses
for Overseas Students (CRICOS). La Trobe University
CRICOS Provider Code Number 00115M. TEQSA
PRV12132; Provider Category: Australian University.
Published by La Trobe University, July 2025 - DC41835
La Trobe University
STAY CONNECTED
Instagram
@latrobeuni
Facebook
La Trobe University
TikTok
@latrobeuni
@latrobe
LinkedIn
La Trobe University
latrobe.edu.au