Inspired by the changing landscape of higher education, Miami University launched a new strategic planning initiative to transform and reinvigorate the university. In fall 2023, Miami began identifying opportunities to strengthen its teaching, research, and service missions, and to reimagine itself to serve dynamic needs and interests of students now and in the future. This work has resulted in 55 broad ideas that are being reviewed to evaluate the cost-benefit of each, as well as opportunities for synergy and collaboration.
Future of advanced manufacturing unveiled during AM Hub ceremony
Makino Subtractive Lab will be ‘driver for amazing things’
Ribbon-cutting ceremony celebrates Advanced Manufacturing Workforce and Innovation Hub
Stay Up to Date
Sign up for the MiamiTHRIVE newsletter to stay up to date on the latest THRIVE news.
With this work, TOGETHER WE WILL
T ransform our university
H onor our mission
R ealize our potential
I nnovate programs and offerings
V alue our people
We will bring to life transformative ideas that elevate academic excellence, scholarship, and opportunities for our talented students.
Unwavering Commitment to Excellence
We will foster a community where every member recognizes the critical importance of personal development, successful outcomes, and immediate action.
We will work together to implement new ways to operate that will streamline our processes and ensure our resources are used strategically in support of our students and community.
Work done by MiamiTHRIVE committees generated dozens of broad ideas.
Multipurpose Event District and Arena
To best support student-athletes, a proposed new multipurpose event district and arena would include more facilities than currently exist at Millett Hall.
Building on an existing partnership with Butler Tech in the area of advanced manufacturing, the Miami University Polytechnic Campus will provide students across the region access to pursue an applied education to solve challenges through the use of technology.
Phase 1: Environmental Scan and Where to Focus
November 2023 – March 2024
Four broad working groups to gather and generate ideas (~50 members)
Potential long-term ambition for Miami
Areas of potential opportunity
400 members of Miami community engaged for ideas and feedback
Phase 2: Strategy and Opportunity Development
April 2024 – Spring 2025, phased rollout
19 working groups formed and focused on the opportunity areas and Miami strengths identified in Phase 1
Review of strategies and plans, including prioritization and resource allocation of priority initiatives
Phased launching of working groups (April, July, September)
Continued input and community feedback
Iterative refinement of opportunity areas and initiatives
Initiative launch and implementation
Why do we need to look for new strategic opportunities?
The higher education landscape has undergone unprecedented transformation in recent years, with technological, demographic, social, and financial shifts requiring universities to adapt in new ways​.
Within this context, we want to ensure Miami is in the strongest position possible to continue delivering on its teaching, research, and service missions, and to serve the dynamic needs and interests of students now and in the future. We are exploring new strategic opportunities to ensure the university can continue to thrive into the future.​
Who is responsible for determining the strategic opportunities that we may pursue?
A broad and diverse set of faculty, staff, and students engaged in this process through interviews, working sessions, focus groups, and surveys. We have formed working groups focused on several topics (bold strategic ideas, academic programs, enrollment strategy, and operational improvement) that developed recommendations for the Board of Trustees to consider.​
What progress has been made to date?​
Work done by MiamiTHRIVE committees generated dozens of broad ideas that were then evaluated based on our three priority ambitions: Student-Centered Transformative Ideas, Unwavering Commitment to Excellence, and Mission-Focused Operational Efficiency. As of spring 2025, approved initiatives have started to be implemented; the latest updates can be found on the Initiatives page (Miami login) . Catch up on all MiamiTHRIVE news here .
How is this different from the university's last strategic plan, MiamiRISE?
This effort builds on the foundation of MiamiRISE and focuses on how Miami can navigate the shifting higher education landscape for success into the future. Compared to MiamiRISE, this work includes greater focus on long-term, transformative opportunities, along with opportunities to increase student interest in Miami and enrollment in the near term.​
How have we ensured that the process is inclusive of the diverse Miami community?​
More than 1,500 faculty, staff, and students worked together to identify foundational strengths of the university and opportunity areas where Miami could distinguish itself. Through focus groups, feedback sessions, and presentations, these Miamians conducted research, strategized, and pulled from their own experiences as they brought passion and enthusiasm to the process.
How can I get involved in the process?​
We appreciate your interest and are very excited to have you participate!
Broad engagement across the community is vitally important to this effort. Please feel free to submit your ideas . Additionally, you may sign up for the occasional MiamiTHRIVE newsletter to receive the latest updates as well as more opportunities for engagement .