NTU
CULTURE
UTNENO NOISIV
TRAMS
SUPMAC VALUES
INDUSTRY
MSIRUENERPERTNE
NOITAMROFSNART
WORLD PARTNERSHIPS
COMMERCIALISATION
IMPACT EXCELLENCE
AMBITIONS
GRAND
CHALLENGES
TALENT
COLLABORATION
INNOVATION CREATE
SRALLIP
COMMUNITY
QUALITY
INITIATIVES
SOLUTIONS
FOCUS
SEITILIBAPAC SETAUDARG
FUTURE
N LH A
O NC
IY OR
TT I ALI TA
C A BI L A E
UN SS
D S T
E EU RR
S T
DIGITAL GROWTH
YMONOCE
ADVANCEMENT
LIFELONGCHANGE
LEARNING POLICY Y
I L
P I C
I D
R E
T N
TECHNOLOGY
MESSAGE FROM NTU PRESIDENT
five years. This effort benefited from strong engagement
and input from every part of the university community, from
faculty and staff across all academic and administrative
domains, and from the Board of Trustees to student leaders
to many alumni. It also benefited significantly from the
tireless efforts of colleagues who were members of the NTU
2025 Strategy Task Force. I express my profound gratitude to
all of them.
NTU 2025 builds on the University's unique intellectual
assets while articulating our bold ambitions and goals for
significantly enhancing and deploying these strengths.
As NTU implements this plan, it will strive to play a key
role in supporting Singapore's national R&D priorities
outlined in the Research, Innovation and Enterprise 2025
niversities have long played a pivotal role plan, and to address four of humanity's grand challenges.
U in creating new knowledge, advancing To this end, specific initiatives, pathways, and goals have
the frontiers of human intellect, fostering been established to strengthen NTU's four core pillars:
innovation to produce economic value, and addressing education, research, innovation, and community. These
societal needs and challenges. Consequently, activities will be supported through enablers that enhance
they serve as catalysts in the preparation of excellence to achieve NTU 2025 goals: talent, financials
future workforce and leadership of communities, and technology.
organisations and countries to improve lives and
livelihoods. The COVID-19 pandemic has reinforced The plan also specifically calls for action to maximise the
the role of universities in providing critically needed potential of NTU in areas covered by the core pillars. We
and timely information, scientific knowhow, and will foster an inclusive and cohesive OneNTU community
support to policymakers and governments. grounded in shared values representing the unique and
diverse culture of NTU and where the wellbeing of every
Judging by the historical time constants of evolution member is a priority. This emphasis on building the
and yardsticks of impact of universities, NTU has OneNTU spirit requires practices and processes that ensure
emerged as one of the leading universities in the commitment to respect, fairness, wellbeing, and equal
world, in the relatively short time span of only several opportunities for all members. The plan also prioritises
decades. This rapid ascent stems from the broad our commitment to environmental sustainability and by
recognition that the core activities of NTU have had deploying our beautiful Smart Campus as a living testbed to
a demonstrable influence in advancing knowledge, translate our intellectual strengths into actionable pathways.
talent pool and cutting-edge technologies that
benefit national priorities and the global scientific and Over the next five years, NTU will introduce new initiatives
innovation ecosystem. Current and former members with the goal of providing a deeply transformative
of the entire NTU community deserve significant experience for our undergraduate students. A carefully
credit and our gratitude for nurturing and shaping designed interdisciplinary core curriculum will be launched
a young university. NTU's current momentum and later this year to emphasise digital literacy, teamwork,
agility position the University well to set an ambitious communication skills, and experiential learning. Through
agenda for the next stage of significant growth and this effort, the University will provide greater breadth and
impact through our five-year strategic plan, NTU 2025. depth of intellectual, social, and cultural nourishing that
will strive to prepare NTU students for impactful service
Success in our NTU 2025 efforts requires ensuring and global citizenship. The University will also set new
uniformity of excellence, fostering interdisciplinary standards for recruiting, rewarding, and recognising faculty
collaborations, and creating impactful innovation and staff dedicated to teaching and research who transcend
to benefit society. As a publicly funded institution, traditional intellectual boundaries. Finally, NTU aims to be
NTU has an obligation to play an important role in at the epicentre of pioneering research, knowledge creation,
helping to address national and regional priorities. innovation, and industry engagement by serving as the
As an internationally acclaimed university, NTU academic anchor in major new infrastructure projects and
has an opportunity and a platform, and indeed a ecosystems planned for development around our campuses.
responsibility, to help address global challenges.
In this effort, NTU's unique strengths will serve as This document is a summary of our ambitious agenda for NTU
catalysts for discoveries, discussion and discourse 2025. I very much look forward to working with our talented
that seamlessly span a wide spectrum of disciplines and committed community of scholars, students, staff and
including engineering, natural sciences, humanities, alumni to bring NTU to new heights in the service of humanity.
arts, social sciences, business, medicine, and policy. I invite you all to participate in this extraordinary journey.
The NTU 2025 Strategy, or simply NTU 2025, is the
culmination of a year-long effort to design a plan that Prof Subra Suresh
will shape the evolution of the University over the next President, NTU Singapore
STRATEGY IN A NUTSHELL
NTU vision EDUCATION
• Future-ready graduates
• Beyond grades
A great global university founded on science and
• Research immersion
technology, nurturing leaders and creating societal • Lifelong learning
impact through interdisciplinary education and research • Future of education
RESEARCH
CORE PILLARS
• Catalyse high-impact research
• Integrate research with learning
GOALS
Education - to nurture leaders with character, • Six clusters
competence and cognitive agility
INNOVATION
Research - to strengthen deep disciplinary discoveries • Enterprising pathways
and high-impact interdisciplinary research • Entrepreneurial mindset
• Maximise impact
Innovation - to translate knowledge into enterprise • Influence policies
that benefits industry and society through partnerships
COMMUNITY
Community - to foster a diverse, inclusive and
• Wellbeing
cohesive community • Diversity
• OneNTU
ENABLERS -
Addressing
TALENT, FINANCIALS AND TECHNOLOGY
humanity's
grand
challenges
EIGHT KEY INITIATIVES DRAWN FROM
THE PILLARS
• Mitigating our
impact on the
environment
Academic Accelerating
• Harnessing the anchor impact
science, art and
technology of
learning Transforming Transforming
advancement learning
NTU
• Addressing
technology's
impact on
2025
humanity
OneNTU Strengthening
• Responding to culture interdisciplinarity
the needs and
challenges of
healthy living
Smart Transforming
and ageing campus innovation
EDUCATION
to nurture leaders with character,
competence and cognitive agility
ducating and Research
E training the immersion
next generation We will integrate research Transforming
of thinkers, innovators, and education activities learning
leaders and lifelong learners more closely, giving students
is central to our mission. increased opportunities
to engage in research
Within this pillar our goals and creative work in their
NTU will intensify its focus on
are: undergraduate journey.
interdisciplinary approaches
Future-ready Lifelong learning across both Education and
graduates
We will help students
Research, and expand holistic
We will equip NTU navigate through the learning opportunities for
students with the skills dynamic changes in the students.
and knowledge necessary workplace and develop a • New interdisciplinary
to thrive in rapidly mindset that prepares them programmes
changing work and living for lifelong learning. We aim
environments. to become a leading provider • New learning spaces and
models that tap into advances
of continuing education.
Beyond grades in the science, art and
To maximise learning Future of technology of learning
outcomes for students, education
• New industry-relevant,
we will broaden the We aim to share NTU's
modular continuing education
range of programmes unique strengths in
course offerings
outside of the classroom educational research,
that offer experiential EdTech, science of • Synergistic integration of
learning and unique learning, and pedagogical NTU's unique strengths with
learning opportunities to techniques through strategic the unique capabilities of the
complement traditional collaborations with other National Institute of Education
classroom education. institutions. (NIE) and the National
Institute of Early Childhood
Development (NIEC)
Harnessing the science,
art and technology of
learning
How can universities best equip
learners of the 21st century?
This challenge will draw on
approaches to the science, art and
technology of learning, including
pedagogical research, lifelong
learning models, neuroscience,
and educator training to benefit
learners of all ages.
RESEARCH
to strengthen deep disciplinary discoveries
and high-impact interdisciplinary research
ith NTU's continued rise as a leading Six clusters
W research university, its research has We will focus on these clusters with potential
evolved to be more collaborative, global for significant intellectual and societal impact,
and interdisciplinary in nature. We will place which are aligned with Singapore's national
greater emphasis on our pursuit of quality and Research, Innovation and Enterprise 2025 plan:
uniformity of excellence in research, while also
Health & Society
addressing Singapore's national priorities and
some of humanity's grand challenges. Culture, Organisations & Society
Artificial & Augmented Intelligence
To achieve our research ambition, we will
pursue the following goals: Resilient Urbanisation & Natural Ecosystems
Future of Industry
Catalyse high-impact research
We will cultivate an environment that Brain & Learning
motivates researchers to participate in
curiosity-driven and applications-inspired
research of deep intellectual value while
nurturing strong interdisciplinary collaborations.
Integrate research with learning
We will provide greater opportunities for
students to engage in research in their
undergraduate programme.
Accelerating Academic
impact anchor
• Create and nurture unique, world-leading • Develop NTU as the academic and research
academic and research entities and foster backbone of a new ecosystem of R&D centres,
outcomes that address industry and societal technology partners, training providers and
needs Factories of the Future in the Jurong Innovation
District adjacent to the NTU Smart Campus
• Build cross-college teams and local and
global networks to address grand challenges • Connect NTU's wide range of intellectual
assets in diverse areas including logistics,
supply chains, autonomous systems,
commerce and maritime studies with the new
Tuas Mega Port infrastructure close to the NTU
main campus to propel Singapore's role as a
Strengthening
major commerce hub
interdisciplinarity
• Enhance NTU's island-wide connectivity with
the new Jurong Region Line running through
the campus
• Interdisciplinary faculty appointments across
• Strengthen NTU's Lee Kong Chian School of
Schools and Colleges
Medicine as one of the key pillars of HealthCity
• A critical mass of faculty, staff and students in Novena, a new holistic ecosystem that includes
areas of scientific and strategic importance health services, research and education
Mitigating our impact on the
How do we better understand,
environment articulate and address humanity's
impact on the environment through
the interplay of technology, policy
and human behaviour? How can
we best do this in partnership with
other academic institutions, industry,
public agencies, and non-profit
organisations?
This grand challenge addressing our
relationship with the environment
will bring together approaches that
examine areas such as ecosystem
resilience, food and water security,
climate science, energy science,
sociology, human behavioural
science, business, biotechnology,
pandemics, and global trade.
INNOVATION
to translate knowledge into enterprise
that benefits industry and society through
partnerships
ollowing the successful stock market Entrepreneurial mindset
F listing of Nanofilm Technologies We will support students, faculty and researchers
International in 2020 that made it the seeking to enhance the outcomes of their scholarly
largest company yet built on IP created at NTU, work through entrepreneurial activities.
the Innovation pillar is aimed at significantly
Maximise impact
expanding NTU's impact on industry and society,
by translating inventions and creativity into To become a regional hub for the sourcing of knowledge,
outcomes that enhance economic benefits and capabilities and partnerships, we will develop a network
quality of life. We will support: of partnerships.
Enterprising pathways Influence policies
We will accelerate the translation and We will actively contribute to and shape the
commercialisation processes by assisting faculty development of public policy and public sector initiatives
and students with the right tools, resources and drawing upon our research and education expertise,
knowhow. through increasing community engagement, and in
collaboration with public agencies and industry partners.
Smart Transforming
campus innovation
The NTU Smart Campus initiative will encompass targeted efforts to promote NTU aims to bring
sustainability and the use of the NTU campus as a testbed to demonstrate how about a step-change
innovative digital and tech-enabled solutions can support better learning and living in its innovation and
experiences for members of our community: entrepreneurship
culture and ecosystem
• Support efforts for on-campus testbedding projects in areas including
through:
innovative green energy, lower carbon footprint and waste management
technologies • New ways to
support Small and
• Convert all NTU buildings to Greenmark Platinum certification
Medium Enterprises
• Undertake clean energy and autonomous vehicle development and pilot (SMEs) through
projects both on and off campus technology transfer
• Set an ambitious target of halving our net energy utilisation, water usage, • Creating specialised
and waste generation each by March 2026, compared to the levels of 2011 training for
entrepreneurship at
• Encourage the use of digital technologies to improve working, learning and
NTU
living experiences on campus
• Developing policies
and practices that
make it easier for
interested faculty to
translate research
into commercial
ventures
• Growing visibility of
entrepreneurship on
campus
• Creating and
growing a seamless
network of NTU's
global industry
partnerships with
companies
Addressing technology's How will humans, the workforce,
and society respond to rapid
impact on humanity
changes in technology?
To examine technology and its
relationship with humanity and
society, focus areas for this
grand challenge will encompass
academic and intellectual
disciplines catalysing Industry 4.0,
business and commerce, public
policy, as well as the humanities
and social sciences.
COMMUNITY
to foster a diverse, inclusive and
cohesive community
OneNTU
culture
This initiative will engage
widely within the NTU
community to develop
and nurture the OneNTU
spirit.
• Nurture shared
values
• Engage key
stakeholders including
alumni
• Undertake
longitudinal surveys
o continue its climb as Diversity
to gauge and improve
T a great global university As a highly diverse and cosmopolitan
employee and student
based in Singapore, community, NTU is committed to treating
engagement
NTU must be a community that all its members with respect, fairness and
is open and welcoming to all equal opportunity.
individuals and one that provides
its members a safe environment
OneNTU
and equal opportunities for We will nurture a strong OneNTU spirit
Transforming
learning and working. grounded in a set of core values shared by
advancement
our community.
Three goals are set for this
core pillar:
Community wellbeing This initiative focuses
We will strengthen our efforts on the engagement
to build a community that strives of the University's
to ensure the wellbeing and alumni, partners,
quality of life and work for all industry collaborators,
its members. foundations and
other stakeholders to
strengthen the efforts of
university advancement.
Responding to the needs
Disciplines that will address
and challenges of healthy healthy living and ageing at
NTU include healthcare, natural
living and ageing
sciences, engineering, social
How will the needs of a rapidly ageing sciences, humanities, business,
society evolve and be addressed? and health sciences.
Talent
Enablers
A mission-led and high-performing organisation
Enhancing excellence to
Attract top talent
achieve NTU 2025 goals
Foster an engaged, high performing workforce
Financials
Diversified revenue streams and efficiency
across the University
Financial responsibility, accountability and effectiveness
Technology
Enabling technologies to power innovation
and growth
Next-generation digital infrastructure and a collaborative
digital workplace
Technology to transform teaching and learning
Agile and future-ready administration and workforce
Secure and cyber-resilient university systems to enhance
productivity and creativity
NTU will be at the epicentre of
knowledge creation, innovation
and industry engagement in the
Jurong Innovation District and the
new Tuas Mega Port, which is in
close proximity.
© NTU Singapore, 2021 NTUsg www.ntu.edu.sg
CTJ
:otohP
latipsoH
gneS
kcoT
naT
:otohP
CTJ
:otohP
ON THE HORIZON
The upcoming Jurong Region
Line will have 3 MRT stations
located within the NTU Smart
Campus, providing much easier
connections to the rest of the
city state.
NTU's Lee Kong Chian
School of Medicine is
one of the pillars of
HealthCity Novena, a
new holistic ecosystem
that includes health
services, research and
education, as well as
commercial, leisure
and public spaces.