NAZARBAYEV
UNIVERSITY
2018-203!
Approved
by the decision of the Supreme Board of Trustees
of the Autonomous Organization of Education
"Nazarbayev University"
#6 dated December 1, 2018
STRATEGY
2018-2030
| 5
FOREWORD
Creating a world-class university in Astana was one of the most important components of the
successful formation of the capital and the effective development of the scientific and educational
potential of our country.
Just a mere eight years ago, Nazarbayev University opened its doors to 500 of the most talented
and gifted students from all over Kazakhstan. Over the years, it has become a real embodiment
of my long-cherished dream of creating a new flagship of the national system of higher education,
capable of competing on equal terms with leading universities in the world.
This successful beginning is made possible by the joint hard work of many thousands of people.
For the first time in the post-Soviet space, a special law on the University was adopted, which
secured academic freedom of the university. The state provided comprehensive financial support
for the construction of a modern campus with developed facilities for education, research and
community engagement.
The university has grown significantly over the years. Now almost five thousand students are
enrolled in 50 academic programs developed jointly with leading partner universities.
Today, university graduates contribute to the development of various sectors of our economy,
create their own companies or continue their further education, including at the best universities
in the world.
The faculty of the University comprises professors that do both teaching and research from more
than fifty countries and they deserve special recognition.
From the very beginning, Nazarbayev University has positioned itself as a world-class research
University and has built a formidable research infrastructure.
NU is building the innovation cluster Astana Business Campus, where professors and students
have an opportunity to commercialize their research findings and cooperate with business.
The new Strategy 2030 sets ambitious goals, and by successfully fulfilling them Nazarbayev
University will join the global community of leading research Universities of the world.
As a result of institutional accreditation, Nazarbayev University will be included in key university
rankings, which will contribute to its promotion at the international level. In addition, it is planned
to increase the number of students to 8 000 by 2025, of which 10% will be international students.
The planned steps will significantly improve the position of our country in the global academic
arena and will contribute to enhancing its global competitiveness.
I am convinced that our University is able to achieve all the stated plans, and that large-scale
significant achievements will await.
I wish you success and achievement of all your goals!
Nursultan Nazarbayev
Chair of the Supreme Board of Trustees
6 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Many people contributed to the preparation of this strategy. Of note are Aray Saniyazova and
Marina Kishkentayeva.
| 7
CONTENTS
1. Introduction 10
Today's Nazarbayev University 11
Independent External Evaluation (2017) 13
The motivation for the new Strategy 2018-2030 14
Instructions from the June 2017 Meeting of the Supreme Board of Trustees 14
2. Early Achievements and Lessons 16
Institutional Outcomes 16
Student Successes 17
Graduate Studies 17
Startups by NU graduates 17
Employment 17
Research and Innovation 18
Lessons from NU's first strategic period 20
3. Ongoing initiatives 21
4. Context - the Future of Universities 22
5. The Vision, Mission and Strategic Goals of NU 23
Core Values 24
Strategic Goals 25
Evolution of NU Vision, Mission, and Strategic Goals 25
Education Reform Leadership 26
Academic and Research Excellence 27
Creating a Model for Healthcare Services 28
Innovation and translating research into production 28
6. The Future NU 29
By 2025 30
By 2030 30
7. Strengthening the sense of unity among NU's parts 31
8. Accountability 31
9. Challenges 32
NU's Challenges in this Strategy period 32
10. From Aspirations to Reality 37
8 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Appendix A: NU SWOT Analysis
Appendix B: Summaries of Unit strategies
Center for Preparatory Studies (CPS) 40
School of Humanities and social sciences (SHSS) 41
School of Engineering (SEng) 42
School of Mining and Geosciences (SMG) 43
School of Science and Technology (SST) 44
Graduate School of Education (GSE) 45
Graduate School of Business (GSB) 45
Graduate School of Public Policy (GSPP) 45
Integrated Academic Health Care and School of Medicine (SOM) 47
National Laboratory Astana 48
Innovation Cluster 49
Appendix C: EUA IEP Recommendations
Governance and decision-making 51
Quality culture 51
Teaching and learning 52
Research 52
Service to society 52
Appendix D: The Future of Kazakhstan's University system
Part I: Current changes in higher education 53
11 core universities: creation of education- research- industry link 53
Research Universities 53
Institutional autonomy 54
NU's contribution to the current changes 54
Part II. Future higher education environment in Kazakhstan 55
Appendix E: Salmi's "pitfalls" (or illusions)
Appendix F: Internationalization
Internationalization Vision 58
Priorities for Internationalization 58
Overview Progress report since 2017 on NU Internationalization 58
| 9
List of Tables
Table 1. NU Schools (Fall 2018) 12
Table 2. NU's Strategic Partners (alphabetical order) 13
Table 3. Tasks from the June 2017 Supreme Board Meeting and NU Response 14
Table 4. Evolution of NU Strategic Goals 25
Table 5. Benchmarks for the two sub-periods of this strategy: 2018-2024/25
and 2025-2030 29
List of Figures
Figure 1. Snapshot of students (as of September 30, 2018) 11
Figure 2. NU Faculty Composition (as of September 30, 2018) 11
Figure 3. Examples of startups launched by NU graduates 17
Figure 4. NU Research Outputs 2011-2018 18
Figure 5. Research Output 2012-2018: Field-weighted Citation 19
Figure 6. Possible Future areas of Research Emphasis 24
Figure 7. Conceptual Illustration: Relationship of NU and other Kazakhstani
Universities as well as Regional (i. e. Central Asian) Universities 27
Figure 8. Innovation Ecosystem. 28
10 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Creating Kazakhstan's future
one graduate at a time
1. INTRODUCTION
Since declaring its independence on December 16th, 1991, Kazakhstan under the guidance of
President Nursultan Nazarbayev has undertaken many bold higher education projects - beginning
with the establishment of the Bolashak scholarship program in 1993 which has to date sent more
than 12,000 of Kazakhstan's brightest young scholars to top universities around the world.
In 2006, President Nazarbayev and his government began to consider how the country could
strengthen its national university program: one answer - to create a world-class English language
university in Astana, the nation's new capital.
Thus, the concept of Nazarbayev University (NU) was born. President Nazarbayev always saw the
NU project as more than an education project. As he said in his speech announcing the launch of
the project to establish the University in September 2009:
"Creation of the new university is the most important national project… [This project] will have
a significant impact on many Kazakhstanis and the development of a backbone for our state.
I believe that the new university… should be created as a national brand, harmoniously combining
Kazakhstani identity with the best international educational and scientific practice." The elements
of this statement present a clear picture of what the President wanted NU to be: a Kazakhstan
institution that achieves the highest international standards; a leader in the future development of
the world and the country.
By August 2018, NU had witnessed four graduations comprising 2617 graduates, including 1814
undergraduates and 803 Master and Ph. D. degrees. NU will soon enter its second decade and as is
| 11
nearing the end of the period covered by its first strategy 1 (2013-2020), making this a good time to
step back and think about its future. This strategy focuses on critical themes and issues for the future; a
future that will have as priories NU's research and innovation efforts, especially but not exclusively in
the STEM disciplines. NU will develop details of implementation plans and the specifics of programs
to address issues raised once NU's Supreme Board has approved this overall strategy.
Although NU is a work-in-progress, it has come a long way since its doors officially opened in
June 2010.
Today's Nazarbayev University
Today NU counts more than 4800 students (757 Foundation Year students, 2,962 Bachelor students;
894 Master students; 128 Ph.D. candidates, and 95 Doctor of Medicine students) with a near perfect
gender balance (Figure 1 below).
4836
students
UNDERGRADUATE
students 22996622 55%% Medicine
GRADUATE students
894 Master's students 11111177 3355%% Humanities and
128PhD students Social Sciences
95 Doctor of Medicine students
FOUNDATION students 775577 6600%% STEM
701 NUFYP students
56 NUZYP students
49% 51%
Male Female
Figure 1. Snapshot of students (as of September 30, 2018)
It has 470 faculty and more than 400 faculty and NLA researchers carry out research. As of September
30, NU's faculty, drawn from 55 countries, is truly international as shown in Figure 2 below.
75% faculty are
international
full-time faculty and researchers
from
55 countries
10% 18% 38% 34%
all professors are
PhD holders
Associate
Professor Assistant Professor Instructors
Professor
all faculty carry out
*Majority of instructors are teaching at CPS (approximately 20% of all full-time faculty) research
20 89
Postdoctoral researcher Teaching assistans
Figure 2. NU Faculty Composition (as of September 30, 2018)
1 NU's Strategy 2020 is listed on NU's website nu.edu.kz
12 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
NU has five schools that offer both undergraduate and graduate programs and three professional
schools, all supported by partner universities drawn from the world's best universities. See Table 1
below for the list of NU's Schools. Appendix A gives Key elements of unit strategies.
Table 1. NU Schools (Fall 2018)
Undergraduate and Graduate Programs Degrees offered
School of Engineering BSc, MSc, Ph. D. (jointly with SST)
School of Humanities and Social Sciences BA, MA, Ph. D. (starting fall 2019)
School of Medicine BA (Nursing), MSs, MD
School of Mining and Geosciences MSc, BSc
School of Science and Technology BSc, MSc, Ph. D. (jointly with SEng)
Graduate Programs only Degrees offered
Graduate School of Business FT-MBA, E-MBA, MSc, Ph. D. (in 2019)
Graduate School of Education MA, MSc, PhD
Graduate School of Public Policy MPP, MPA, PhD
Preparatory Programs Certificates
1 Year Foundation Program Successful completion paves the way for enrolment
at NU's undergraduate program
Zero-Year Program for Master Studies
Conditional Admission to NU's Master level
programs
Entering into strategic partnerships with top international universities has played a vital role in
jumpstarting NU's institutional development. Each School chose a different partner. This diversity
has made for a sometimes challenging but overall, rich learning experience. Table 2 below gives
the initial list in alphabetical order of these strategic partnerships. Most of them have endured,
some have expired, and in exceptional cases, the mutual fit was simply not there.
| 13
Table 2. NU's Strategic Partners (alphabetical order)
Cambridge University, Faculty of Education (UK) -
Graduate School of Education; Cambridge Assessment - NUFYP
iCarnegie (USA) -
School of Science and Technology (initial partner for the first three years)
Colorado School of Mines (USA) -
School of Mining and Geosciences
Duke University, Fuqua School of Business (USA) -
Graduate School of Business
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (USA) -
National Laboratory Astana
National University of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy (Singapore) -
Graduate School of Public Policy
Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU - USA) -
Peer Reviews for internal research grants
Pennsylvania University, School of Education (USA) -
Graduate School of Education
University of Pittsburgh (USA) -
School of Medicine
Warwick University (UK) -
NUFYP (during re-design stage following UCL exit)
Wisconsin-Madison University (USA) -
School of Humanities and Social Sciences
University College London (UK) -
NU School of Engineering (for the first 5 years) and NU Foundation Year Program (NUFYP) (for the first 5 years)
In support of its research, innovation and commercialization agenda, NU has also developed the
National Laboratory Astana (NLA) to complement its faculty-driven research programs and an
Innovation and Commercialization Cluster including a Technopark and an innovation ecosystem.
It is also building the Astana Business Campus (ABC).
NU is today as a young but firmly established institution that produces well-trained graduates
who go on to top university graduate programs around the world, get recruited to excellent jobs
or become entrepreneurs (for more details, see Chapter 2). However, more is needed if NU is to
deliver on the country's original vision for it.
As we discuss below, the core of NU's next phase of growth and development is a vibrant, faculty-
driven research program. NU already has a good start in developing such a program with more than 500
faculty and researchers, who have produced approximately 2000 international publications in the period
2011-2018. NU faculty and researchers published three-quarters of their publications in collaboration
with international partners. NU's students were also successful in publications, publishing over 130
articles. More than 11% of NU's publications are among the top 10% of the most widely cited publications
worldwide, and top journals have published more than one-quarter of NU's research output.
Independent External Evaluation (2017)
In its continuing efforts to improve NU's quality and impact, in late 2016 NU engaged in an
internal review process under the guidance of the European University Association's (EUA)
Institutional Evaluation Program (IEP). In the first half of 2017, the EUA conducted its independent
14 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
evaluation and published its Evaluation Report in August 2017. The report lauded NU's efforts to
date and the tremendous distance it has come in a short time. It then offered 29 recommendations
designed to take NU to the next level of global competitiveness. Appendix B Summaries the IEP
recommendation Most of their recommendations aligned with deliberations that started between
NU administrators, faculty and researchers. NU has established working groups to follow up on the
EUA recommendations. The EUA will return to NU on a regular basis to review implementation
progress and discuss further steps with NU's leadership team.
The motivation for the new Strategy 2018-2030
Considering that NU started out as a greenfield operation just nine years ago, there is much for
which the NU community can to be proud. However, NU is still growing and working to become
the university President Nazarbayev envisioned when he launched the project. While preserving
continuity and quality it must always be willing to embrace disruptive change. NU also will
continue to grow, doubling its student body to 8,000 students by 2025.
The rationale for preparing this strategy before the end of the current strategy is to emphasize the need
for continuity while also preparing for change that will inevitably be imposed by disruptive technologies
and unknown futures. Building a strong, world-class institution takes time, and continuity is essential.
NU's commitment to research and innovation is a key direction that will dominate its next
strategic period. NU has as its goal to join the ranks of world-class research universities. To do
so will require becoming known for at least a small number of top-notch research areas. NU will
strengthen the links between teaching, research, innovation and eventual commercialization so
that they become seamless. This transformation will be fundamental to fulfilling the vision that
President Nazarbayev has for NU.
Instructions from the June 2017 Meeting of the Supreme Board of Trustees
NU's Supreme Board of Trustees at its June 2017 meeting requested and provided guidance for a
new strategy to cover the period 2018-2030. At that meeting, seven specific tasks were spelled out.
Table 3 below presents these guidelines and a brief indication of NU's proposals for fulfilling them.
The 2018-2030 Strategy expands on these points below.
Table 3. Tasks from the June 2017 Supreme Board Meeting and NU Response
№ Task Response
1. To search for and attract talented students Intensive recruitment program for both students and
and young researchers from abroad. faculty. Establishment of a Board sub-committee
on Internationalization. Launch Satellite Offices to
support this task.
2. To make suggestions about the increase A commitment to increase the overall percentage
in the student number from foreign of international students from the current less than
countries at Nazarbayev University in one percent to 9-10% by 2025 and 12% by 2030.
5 years, up to 10% out of the overall A plan has been prepared and discussed by the
number of students. Internationalization Sub-Committee under the Board
of Trustees.
3. To expand international collaboration, Shift partnerships toward a model with deeper
continue to exchange experiences with collaboration between NU's faculty and Partners'
the strategic partners, at the same faculties and promote students exchange. Use the
time maintaining and developing own annual partners' meetings to make this happen.
uniqueness.
| 15
№ Task Response
4. To take measures to create an ecosystem NU has worked to set up an entire ecosystem to
to support innovation. To provide support innovation and commercialization based on
systemic support such as consultations, the fruits of NU's research. A one-stop shop for young/
startup capital, premises, marketing and first-time entrepreneurs is in place.
legal support for young researchers who
have ideas and technologies.
5. To create a department at AOE NU has established a Research Support. Department
Nazarbayev University to promote under the Provost's Office to serve NU faculty and
research and commercialization of researchers, and an innovation and commercialization
research and innovation projects in office under the NURIS Private Entity.
Kazakhstan and abroad.
6. To create research centers at AOE NU has submitted a request to Government increase
Nazarbayev University and attract star annual research funding to NU to support both
professors, prominent researchers, and distinguished international researchers and NU's top
increase the number of postdocs and researchers. This request is consistent with the need for
research assistants. Kazakhstan to substantially increase its investment in
R&D to get closer to OECD levels. NU will compete
for its share of this increased research pie.
Also, NU has agreed with Samruk-Kazyna (S-K) to
have S-K to provide financial support for research,
in addition to supporting NU's Graduate School of
Business NU.
Management gratefully acknowledges that part of the
Nazarbayev Fund's interest income now has started to
fund research related activities at the university.
7. Тo consider in the long-term strategy A plan has been developed to meet this goal by 2025
to increase students' number to eight while maintaining NU's rigorous quality standards.
thousand students.
We have organized this document as follows:
Chapter 2 reviews the early achievements and lessons learned during the first Strategy period.
NU's achievements in its first ten years create a strong foundation for this strategy.
Chapter 3 describes ongoing initiatives. In addition to preserving continuity with its past, NU's
future also must be consistent with the evolving and emerging future of universities globally as
well as in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Trends shaping the future of the world's universities are discussed briefly in Chapters 4.
With these pieces in place, Chapter 5 takes a closer look at NU's vision, mission, core values, and
strategic goals. Chapter 6 gives commitments for the two sub-periods of this strategy and proposes
some core metrics.
Chapters 7 and 8 reviews two main tasks for the NU Community: namely to strengthen the sense
of unity among the various members of the community, and to emphasize the synthesis needed
to ensure that the whole will always be greater than the sum of its parts. Chapter 9 then discusses
the challenges that NU will face if it is to succeed in implementing this strategy, and Chapter
10 concludes with a call to move from aspiration to reality, including a review of next steps in
implementing this strategy.
16 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
2. EARLY ACHIEVEMENTS AND LESSONS
Institutional Outcomes
At the institutional level, NU achieved many "firsts" for Kazakhstan in the past eight years.
As NU President Shigeo Katsu said in a May 2017 presentation on NU's early achievements:
• "The translation and transmission of "best practices" from Western universities, and NU's
strictly merit-based approach has meant that:
• NU attracts the best minds and talents in the country;
• NU functions as a social lift for poor, but talented young people;
• The wider society embraces the NU model;
• The International community accepts NU as a real example of efforts to modernize the
country."
However, he ended on a note of caution:
• "NU today is recognized as a very good "teaching university," itself already an achievement,
but the work is only 1/3 done."
At this point, NU's primary product is its graduates, with research a critical independent output
and input into the quality of its teaching program. While the track record on these fronts is short,
a mere eight years and four graduating classes, it is nonetheless encouraging. For more about NU's
past results, see its website at nu.edu.kz. Nevertheless, NU's primary product is its graduates.
We must put the following statistics on NU's graduates in context. These young people graduated
from a university, which did not exist nine years ago. The university undoubtedly benefited from
the success of the Bolashak program that put Kazakhstan on the educational map. Nevertheless,
the fact that the world's top graduate programs have admitted so many NU graduates attests to
both the quality of NU's programs and the quality of its early cohorts of students.
| 17
Student Successes
NU's first four graduating classes have done well, whether they chose to pursue additional education
or enter the job market. Of the 2617 graduates in these four classes, roughly, one third chose
to pursue further education, and two-thirds sought employment. Looking at only the Bachelor'
graduates, about half of them have enrolled in graduate studies, many of them abroad.
Graduate Studies
Cumulatively, more than 600 graduates chose to pursue additional education. Most went to top schools
around the world (USA, UK, Germany, and France were the leading recipient countries after NU).
The majority entered master programs, but a significant number are pursuing Ph. D. or Ph. D./
Master programs or Doctor of Medicine programs. Of these, a little less than half chose to study
abroad, and slightly more than half chose to study at NU.
As one example, NU's first 2015 Valedictorian, a woman graduate in Chemistry, was accepted in
Stanford's and Princeton's Ph. D. programs and MIT's master program. She was one of only seven
MIT applicants to its MS program to receive a full scholarship to MIT; she completed her MIT
Masters in a year and went on to study for her Ph. D. at Stanford.
Startups by NU graduates
Several of NU's early graduates also set up new companies, this even before NU became serious
about supporting innovation and entrepreneurship. See the accompanying Figure 3.
Skills Pro AE - lab Aqua point
robotics predictive maintenance for production of devices
courses for kids dry-type transformers for high quality drinking water
(Astana,2017) (Astana, 2017) (Almaty, 2016)
Health Project Black Rainbow
production of healthy animation studio
nutrition (Astana, 2017) (Astana,2017)
Doq.kz Genotest Ecoprot (Beyond)
online booking services of individual production
of medical services genetic testing of sports nutrition
(Astana, 2017) (Astana, 2017) (Astana, 2017)
Source: NU Career Advising Center, as of 20 June 2018
Figure 3. Examples of startups launched by NU graduates
These students are leading the way in an area critical to NU's contribution to Kazakhstan's future:
Developing new businesses that contribute to the diversification challenge by providing citizens with
new jobs. Several of these startups also illustrate how NU students can "give back" to their country
for the gift of education that the country has given them, by setting up socially oriented NGOs.
Employment
Regarding the country's economic diversification agenda, it is noteworthy that less than one-
fifth of those seeking employment ended up in the manufacturing and production. The single
largest employment categories were Consulting, Audit and Banking and Education and Science.
As of 2018, approximately 50 percent of NU graduates with bachelor's degrees choose to seek
employment on graduation, 80+ percent of those with master's degrees did so.
18 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
One important side benefit of NU's merit-based admissions and graduation policies is the near
perfect gender balance among its students even in the STEM disciplines - of NU's five top students
in its first graduating class, four were women, and two of those were STEM graduates.
Research and Innovation
As Figure 4 indicates, NU's research and innovation records are already admirable.
>2000 ~400 11.7 % >80 >130
publications researchers of publications in research and publications
(NU faculty and the top 10% most teaching by students
NLA staff) laboratories
Figure 4. NU Research Outputs 2011-2018
With more than 400 researchers, publications increased rapidly (cumulatively approaching the
threshold of 2000; with 11.7% in the top 10% of most cited publications worldwide (Kazakhstan
average 4.0%); with field-weighted citation impact 1.17 vs. global average 1.00 (as of August 2018).
In comparison, Kazakhstan's other higher education institutions average citation impact is less than
0.6. And, when compared with the leading universities within the Commonwealth of Independent
States (CIS), NU already occupies the 4th place, and when compared with the leading universities
of the post-2004 EU accession countries, NU is in 14th place. These outcomes are true even though
we have just started. NU also ranks as the most cited research institution in Kazakhstan, according
to Thomson Reuters.
| 19
Figure 5 below shows where NU falls regarding field-weighted citations and international
collaboration relative to comparator groups.
2,4
University Singapore University
2,2 University Duke University of Cambridge of Technology and Design
of Pennsylvania
University College Hong Kong
2 University London University of Science King Abdullah
of Pittsburgh University of Science
and Technology
University and Technology
1,8 of Wisconsin University of Luxembourg
National University
Colorado of Singapore
1,6 School of Mines
1,4 Tsinghua University Peking University
Seoul National University University of Tokyo United Arab
Emirates U niversity King Saud University
1,2 Indian Institute University of Malaya
of Technology, Bombay (1.12)
1 World (1.0) Chulalongkorn University
University
0,8 of Indonesia Moscow University of Colombo
State University University of Yangon
0,6 Al Farabi Kazakh L.N. Gumilyov Eurasian
National University National University
Kazakh National Kazakh British
0,4 Technical University Technical University
0,2
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
tcapmI
noitatiC
dethgieW-dleiF
International collaboration (%)
NU's strategic partners Asian Universities Alliance members
Fast developing universities National universities in Kazakhstan
Figure 5. Research Output 2012-2018: Field-weighted Citation
NU faculty and researchers are moving on the innovation front as well, with 63 patent applications,
and more than 40 actual patents received.
These are good numbers for any university, let alone one that started a mere eight years ago. The
Evaluation report of the EUA report (see NU's website at nu.edu.kz) states:
"The team commends NU for the high quality of its students and academic staff. The latter, who
is predominantly foreigners, is dedicated to the success of what they see as an interesting project,
i. e., contributing to a national experiment. The publication list NU provided is impressive, and the
staff output emanates not only from their previous positions but includes research carried out at
NU. The quality of NU's partners, some listed above, speak for the quality of the academic staff
recruited partially through them."
20 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Lessons from NU's first strategic period
At the foundation of these early achievements are a host of factors and actors, but the following
stand out:
1. The President's decision to make English - the language of international research - NU's
language of instruction has been critical to its success;
2. The Supreme Board's guidance in the form of the initial five strategic goals helped NU
focus in its early years;
3. Instilling in NU's students the best of global values regarding ethics, academic integrity,
individual responsibility, and critical thinking has been very important;
4. As the international development community knows, country ownership is essential to
successful institutional development - in NU's case, from the origin of the concept to initial
implementation, NU was a truly national (Kazakhstani) project. It remains so today;
5. Early in its work, the original implementation team understood the need to distinguish NU
from Kazakhstan's previous efforts to develop "world class" universities. Important in this
regard was the passage of a special law giving NU academic and institutional autonomy.
In turn, this autonomy allowed NU to aggressively pursue global governance standards
and merit-based admissions and hiring policies. It also allowed the creation of a Board of
Trustees with international and national members;
6. NU's admission policies built on the principle of merit. Contracting out the admissions to
NU's entry-level foundation program (the Center for Preparatory Studies) to the University
College of London (UCL), one of the strategic partners set the tone. This admissions process
sent a strong signal to the citizens of Kazakhstan that NU was different. The message
relayed was that NU was a university for all; any student, regardless of wealth, connections
(or lack there of), ethnicity or gender with sufficient academic achievements - and level of
English - could and would be admitted to NU;
7. The composition of NU's student body reflects the importance of this admissions policy as
it is representative of all the country's socioeconomic, gender, and geographical groupings
(Figure 4). NU's admissions policies also produced a near perfect gender distribution
among students (see Figure 1 above);
8. NU's early decision to reject a "branch campus" approach to its relationships with the
strategic partners was also critical, allowing NU to develop its independent brand and
contributing to its long-term sustainability;
9. NU's initial strategic partners, drawn from the ranks of the world's best universities, played
a crucial role during NU's start-up period. NU's partners gave NU the ability to develop
more rapidly than would have been the case without them while signaling as well that NU
was serious about quality;
10. EUA's review of NU was an important input into NU's constant efforts at self-improvement.
| 21
3. ONGOING INITIATIVES
After eight years, NU is still a work in progress. Recently launched initiatives include, but are not
limited to:
1. NU's Provost's office is developing a new research strategy, which emphasizes the need
for cross-disciplinary research and the need for NU to focus its research resources on a
manageable number of priority areas;
2. Internationalization although internationalization remains a core goal for NU's second
decade; work is already underway on that front (see appendix C). NU's Board of Trustees
has established a subcommittee on Internationalization and NU's VP for Student Affairs,
International Cooperation; Government Relations has already launched a program to
identify good practice on internationalization in other university settings;
3. Learning and Teaching Strategy: The NU Learning and Teaching Strategy set out the university's
approach to learning and teaching. The strategy focuses on the themes of Innovation, Integration,
and Inclusion, and NU links it to the goal of academic excellence and the NU Graduate Attributes.
It advocates academic integrity, research-integrated teaching, inquiry-based learning, collaborative
learning, technology-competent learning and internationally-connected learning;
4. NU's quality enhancement plan: NU bases its University Quality Enhancement Plan
(NUQEP) on an analysis of student and faculty feedback, external examiners' comments,
data on student progression and performance at the course, program and School levels, and
reflections on the progress made towards implementing the previous action plan. The NUQEP
sets new targets and identifies existing good practices for dissemination among NU Schools;
5. The development of a core curriculum that all first and second-year students will take
allows them the time to explore interests and discover intellectual passions before they
must choose a major. The core curriculum integrates insights from NU's teaching and
learning strategy along with entrepreneurial and design thinking;
6. Institutional Research Activities: IR carries out analytical and research activities to
support decision-making and institutional planning at NU. Its main objective is to produce
statistical analyses that address issues of importance to Nazarbayev University. These have
included studies of grade distributions across Schools, NU students' standard of English
(from NUFYP through the Undergraduate program), the academic performance of direct-
admitted students and surveys of NU students conducted at entry and on exit;
7. Also, as mentioned, NU has engaged in European University Association's (EUA)
Institutional Evaluation Program (IEP) to obtain an external, independent view of its
progress. The results of this review are being absorbed and acted on by NU's management.
Appendix B summarizes the IEP recommendations;
8. Per the Supreme Board's mandate, NU has established a plan to double its student population by 2025;
9. Green Campus Initiative: As its concept note states, the Green Campus concept will serve
as the basis for building NU's Environmental Policy and create a sustainable culture within
its community. The introduction of the Green Campus concept by NU will be a pilot project,
which other Kazakhstani institutions can replicate;
10. The development of an innovation ecosystem to support NU's current and future innovation efforts.
11. At the Governments request, NU leadership is exploring how best to establish a new IT
University on the site of the International Expo.
22 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
4. CONTEXT - THE FUTURE OF UNIVERSITIES 2
How will the purpose of universities change in the coming decades, and how will the way
universities deliver their evolving product change?
Regardless of the future scenario one favors for the world or Kazakhstan; certain inevitable trends
are likely to affect universities in the future. Among these are:
• Increased global competition among universities will raise the need for universities to
distinguish their educational product from the pack;
• Continuing digital revolution and globalization will be increasingly disruptive of conventional
labor markets and employment;
• The digital revolution will also change the way universities operate; how they teach and are
organized.
Thus, universities in the next several decades are likely to face at least two challenges:
• Staying competitive and relevant in a labor market environment characterized by rapidly
shifting demands for skills as technology and robotics replace jobs with code and machines
(see Boston Consulting Group's Man and Machine in Industry 4.0 3), and trade and
globalization redistributes of jobs among countries 4.
• Adapting to the ongoing digital revolution in the way universities operate (mixed delivery of
materials, digital classrooms, etc.).
The labor market changes point to a dramatic increase in the need for and desire of older workers
to seek new skills during their working lives. Many future universities will no longer be places
dominated by young people just out of high school - they will be a mix of ages as countries struggle
to retrain workers left without jobs because of technological change and globalization.
The university experience will change dramatically in the period covered by this strategy.
NU needs to maintain the flexibility to adapt to these changes.
All these trends will affect Kazakhstan's higher education system as well, although how is beyond
the scope of this strategy (but see Appendix C for a summary of the government's current thinking).
However, the need to adapt to massive changes in (market) demand for skills is likely to be even
greater in Kazakhstan than for the rest of the world as it seeks to diversify its economy to achieve
the vision of Strategy 2050.
2 See Ernst and Young's 2012 report on "University of the future: A thousand-year-old industry on the cusp of
profound change" for a similar set of ideas. See also The Economist, "The staid higher-education business is about
to experience a welcome earthquake" Jun 28th, 2014 and Zogby Analytics, 2014 Global Survey of Students" June
2014.
3 Boston Consulting Group, Man and Machine in Industry 4.0, September 2015.
4 See also Bakhshi et al, The Future of Skills, Employment in 2030, London, Pearson and Nesta, 2017; and The
Future of Jobs: Employment, Skills and Workforce Strategy for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. World Economic
Forum, January 2016.
| 23
5. THE VISION, MISSION AND STRATEGIC GOALS OF NU
Regarding the country's desire for NU, one can glean several elements in the Head of State's
remarks launching NU and from subsequent public statements. NU is to be a top university globally
and a national "brand." Its graduates will lead the country's modernization efforts and will be in
the forefront of efforts to implement the vision set out in Kazakhstan 2050.
To achieve these strategic goals, it will need to be more than a pure teaching and research university;
it will need to promote innovation and entrepreneurship, which will underpin the diversification
of Kazakhstan's economy. NU will encounter many barriers to moving in this direction, which
implies taking risks and moving into territory unfamiliar to the country in the face of growing
competition for public resources.
These goals - global preeminence and national relevance - are not at odds with each other and can
be mutually reinforcing. However, to ensure this mutual reinforcement, NU in the coming decades
needs to pursue these objectives in a complementary manner.
International recognition -requires playing by existing global rules - in other words, competing
effectively in the global ranking "League Tables" game. That competition is driven primarily,
but not exclusively, by a university's research and publishing track record, but also by student
achievements and university characteristics (for example, student-professor ratios, the diversity of
the student body, etc.). The timing of when NU enters the global competition needs to be carefully
considered, as entering too early could "typecast" NU in the lower ranks of global universities, a
designation which could be difficult to shed. NU, therefore, does not expect to seek global ranking
until late in this strategic period, toward 2030.
In the meantime, NU will analyze the characteristics of the top 200 universities to document what is
realistic and feasible on the ranking front. However, NU's future should not be directed exclusively
at achieving high positions in the Global League tables. As President Nazarbayev commented,
NU must serve the people of Kazakhstan as they seek to develop themselves and modernize their
country. This point was made as well in NU's 2020 strategy.
To drive and guide the journey to 2050, NU will incentivize its faculty to apply their research to
both critical global issues and Kazakhstan's socio-economic as well as science and technological
challenges.
Combining these attributes in a single institution and achieving success in a short time frame will
require a continued strong sense of common purpose, a strong and diverse leadership team, and a
clear sense of how this amalgamation will look. It will also need a focus on what NU will want to
be known for in the future (its brand).
As mentioned earlier, NU must distinguish itself from the university "pack." To do this, NU
must develop globally recognized expertise in a manageable number of spheres. Based on NU's
current configuration and relative strengths, among the possible areas of future emphasis (shown
in Figure 6):
24 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Construction, Infrastructure,
Transport Systems and SMART Cities
Biomedicine and Neurosciences
Physics and Space Exploration
Anthropology, Sociology and History
Oil, Mining, Geosciences and
Resource Management
Eurasian Studies
Advanced Materials, Energy
and Sustainable Development Education
Robotics and Intelligent Systems Finance, Markets and Governance
Computer Engineering and Data Sciences Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Figure 6. Possible Future areas of Research Emphasis
Core Values
To continue its journey to global recognition, the NU of the future must also hold true to its core
values:
For the university these are:
• Research - driven by intellectual curiosity - seeking local and global impact;
• Embracing diversity - integrated into every aspect of education, research, and community;
• Equal access to education - regardless of race, religion, gender, physical capacity, or
socioeconomic status;
• Merit-based institution open to all talented and bright students, faculty and researchers;
• Instilling Integrity in teaching, administration, and student life;
• Professionalism and high ethical principles for students, faculty, and researchers;
• Transparency and openness, public access to all aspects of university operations.
For graduates these are:
• Possess an in-depth and sophisticated understanding of their domain of study;
• Be intellectually agile, curious, creative, and open-minded;
• Be thoughtful decision-makers who know how to involve others;
• Be entrepreneurial, self-propelling and able to create new opportunities;
• Be fluent and nuanced communicators across languages and cultures;
• Be cultured citizens of the world who embrace diversity;
• Demonstrate high personal integrity;
• Be prepared to take a leading role in the development of their country.
| 25
Strategic Goals
NU's Supreme Board gave NU five original, overarching strategic goals:
1. Education reform leadership;
2. Academic Excellence;
3. Research excellence;
4. Creating a model for health care services;
5. Innovation and translating research into production.
The table below (see Table 4) looks at the evolution of these strategic goals over this strategy period:
Evolution of NU Vision, Mission, and Strategic Goals
Table 4. Evolution of NU Strategic Goals
2018 2024/25 2025/to/2030
Vision
To give Kazakhstan and the world the The vision will continue The vision will still be valid
scientists, academics, managers, and but carried to ever higher
entrepreneurs needed to prosper and standards
develop
Mission
To be a model for higher education The mission will continue, but The mission will continue to
reform and modern research; to with increased integration with demand education leadership
contribute to the establishment of Kazakhstan's wider university and emphasize life-long
Astana as an international knowledge, system, especially Astana's Learning;
innovation, and medical hub; and other centers of learning.
to prepare students for a world of
increased volatility, uncertainty,
complexity, and ambiguity.
Strategic Goal 1:
Higher Education Reform Yes, and continue to innovate Build a network of equals
Leadership the 'hub and spokes' model where
with increased two-way flows
To stay NU would assist other
between NU and Kazakhstan's
universities to catch up, and
other national and regional
thus create a fully integrated
universities.
higher education system;
further, strengthen NU's
regional leadership role.
26 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
2018 2024/25 2025/to/2030
Strategic Goal 2:
Academic Excellence Yes, and always move to Yes, and ensure that NU
higher standards; increased academic performance
To stay
role in making Astana a center puts it in the top 200 global
of academic excellence. universities.
Strategic Goal 3:
Research Excellence Yes, and intensify focus on Intensify and move further up
subjects important to the world the citation index and increase
To stay
and Kazakhstan; move up the connections with top research
citation-impact index centers around the world.
Strategic Goal 4:
A model for creating healthcare Fully established IMHC - Assess the workings of
services link up with the whole of NU the IAHC and help the
and not just the School of government implement it
To stay
Medicine. across RK.
Strategic Goal 5:
Innovation and translation of Vibrant commercialization Reassess innovation
research into production phase; pilot new ABC site. ecosystem and intensify
commercialization.
To stay
New Strategic Goals:
NU will take an in-depth look in Review progress toward 2050 Scan for new strategic goals
consultation with the Supreme Board. goals and determine strategic for the future.
goals for the period to 2030.
While the original five goals will remain in effect at least until 2024/2025, their relative weights
in NU's resource allocation and management focus are likely to change. Over time, NU may
shift emphasis from the first strategic goal - Educational Reform Leadership to the third and fifth
strategic goal, Research Excellence and Innovation and Translating Research into Innovation and
Production. Educational reform leadership and health care and innovation will remain important;
so, this shift is a matter of emphasis, not dropping some goals in favor of others.
Below we review NU's five primary strategic goals and consider how each may change in the
coming six years (the first half of the strategy period). By 2025, it is likely that events in Kazakhstan
and the World will require NU to rethink its strategic goals. The next sections discuss general
directions for the five strategic goals up to 2025.
Education Reform Leadership
At least until 2025, NU is likely to remain a unique institution within the Kazakhstan university
system. A key challenge for NU in its outreach to the country's higher education institutions will
be to tailor its advice to their realities (for example, resource constraints). By 2030 Kazakhstan may
have other institutions that will start to resemble NU. If and when this happens, NU will need to
rethink its role regarding Kazakhstan's university system.
| 27
In responding to the mandate of higher education reform leadership, technology will play a key role. For
the first half of this strategy period, a hub and spoke model (see Figure 7) with NU at the hub will link
Kazakhstan's universities in a "web of knowledge." The development of this web is already happening
in part through the various training courses and professional development programs that NU offers to
leadership and staff of other universities. Linking Kazakhstan's universities ultimately in a network of
universities of (almost) equal standing will also facilitate student mobility within the country and as an
extension, international student mobility as well, an increasingly interesting model for many countries. As
Kazakhstan's university system matures, this web of knowledge will look more like as shown in Figure 7.
Today (2018) 2025 2030
UUnniivveerrssiittyy
11 NNUU
UUnniivveerrssiittyy RReeggiioonnaall
11 UUnniivveerrssiittyy UUnniivveerrssiittyy
22 22
UUnniivveerrssiittyy UUnniivveerrssiittyy KKaazzaakkhhssttaannii KKaazzaakkhhssttaannii
NU 55 22 UUnniivveerrssiittyy UUnniivveerrssiittyy
UU RR nn ee ii gg vv ii ee oo rr nn ssii aa tt ll yy NU UUnniivv 33 eerrssiittyy
UUnniivveerrssiittyy UUnniivveerrssiittyy 11
44 33
RReeggiioonnaall RReeggiioonnaall
NU Law UUnniivveerrssiittyy UUnniivveerrssiittyy
UUnniivveerrssiittyy UUnniivveerrssiittyy
Kazakhstani universities 66 44
UUnniivveerrssiittyy
Figure 7. Conceptual Illustration: Relationship of NU and other Kazakhstani Universities as well as
Regional (i. e. Central Asian) Universities
To achieve these goals, NU will need to be selective in the lessons it chooses to pass on to the rest of
the higher education system. What it means to implement principles of academic freedom; how to
make internationally accepted standards of university governance, including the concept of shared
governance work in the Kazakhstan context. Merit-based admissions policies; instilling academic
integrity, and critical thinking skills in students, are examples of lessons relevant to the country's
entire higher education system, but there will be many more. NU's mandate to help the government
establish a new IT University in Astana will serve as testing ground for what can and what cannot be
transferred to the rest of Kazakhstan's universities.
Academic and Research Excellence
Academic and research excellence are the foundations of all great universities. NU's faculty and
researchers must continue to demonstrate their ability to achieve high global standards in these,
the university's core businesses. As mentioned earlier, the EUA evaluation team commended NU
on the quality of both its students and its faculty.
As NU's newness wears off over time, the world will be increasingly demanding of NU to demonstrate
that it measures up to global standards. Therefore, continued growth in the quality and success of its
graduates and its research will be critical in achieving international recognition and standing.
Concerning academic excellence, NU's challenge will be to imbue in graduates the ability to both
work in today's Kazakhstan and to shape tomorrow's environment as they contribute to modernizing
society and to achieving the vision of Kazakhstan 2050. While employers of NU graduates have
indicated how much they value NU's graduate's ability to think critically and to solve problems
along with theory, they have emphasized that applied knowledge is important as well.
On the research front, NU will increasingly face the challenge to achieve a critical mass in a
manageable number of research areas while strengthening the link between research and innovation,
28 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
and between these and commercialization. To this end, NU is in the process of strengthening its
research support services to NU researchers and students, and further increase collaborations with
centers of research excellence around the world.
Creating a Model for Healthcare Services
NU's health and biomedical programs will increasingly be called upon to lead Kazakhstan's health
system reforms, implying a continuous close relationship between these programs and the Ministry
of Health (MoH). NU's School of Medicine (SoM) is already a model for Kazakhstan's other
medical schools. Beyond training world-class doctors and nurses, NU will work with the MoH on
modernizing Kazakhstan's health delivery system.
There is one issue of concern: unless solutions are found to raise medical compensation levels by the
time SoM graduates medical doctors and nurses of global standards, the country may have difficulty
retaining them given the global competition for these two groups. A recent report in the Kazakhstan
Youth Educational Portal discussing the ranking of occupations by salaries states that: "…medicine
… remains one of the lowest paid sectors [in Kazakhstan]." This status of the medical profession in
Kazakhstan is in sharp contrast to the earnings status of medicine in other parts of the world.
By 2025, NU's health and biomedical programs should be a fully functioning integrated academic
health care system (IAHCS). A fully functioning IAHCS will link up not only with SoM and the
University Medical Center (UMC) but also with the other NU schools and research centers.
Innovation and translating research into production
Of all the challenges facing NU in the years to come, delivering on its innovation agenda will be
close to the top of the list both in importance and challenges. It will require continuing to instill
in NU students and other young people a willingness to take smart risks, and even occasionally
to fail. Having competed successfully to enter the university, NU students are vulnerable to the
concept of failing. Convincing them that this is possibly true academically but does not apply to
innovation or entrepreneurship will require constant guidance by NU's faculty and staff. Figure 8
below schematizes the core elements of NU's innovation cluster.
University NU Schools
Medical Center
NU Research Centers
Business
Incubator
Science Park
Commercialization
Technopark
Office
Figure 8. Innovation Ecosystem.
NU has established almost all the elements of the cluster. The one building block as yet missing
is the physical realization of NU's science park, that is, the Astana Business Campus (ABC).
While its design has been prepared, financing the ABC is a challenge. Several options are under
consideration ranging from a fully public-funded model to one with extensive private sector
(developers) participation.
| 29
6. THE FUTURE NU
The table below (see Table 5) provides an overview of NU's goals for the two sub-periods of this
strategy: 2018-2024/25 and 2025-2030.
Table 5. Benchmarks for the two sub-periods of this strategy: 2018-2024/25 and 2025-2030
Issues By 2024/2025 By 2030
Students: numbers Foundation: 500 Up to 10000
Undergrad.:5200
MA/MSc: 1900
Ph. D.: 450
Total: 8050
Students: internationalization Undergrad: 5% Undergrad: 10%
Graduates: 20% Grad: 25%
Overall: 9-10% Overall: 12-15%
Research - demand for Citation impact: >1.6 Citation impact: >2.0
research resources will pick up
Budget*: USD250 million per Budget*: USD500 million per year
dramatically during this strategy.
year
Accreditation Program-level accreditation Institutional accreditation
Innovation Commercialization Complete the ecosystem Emulate Cambridge phenomena**.
Testing and developing NU's Full-Scale launch of
commercialization support commercialization through ABC
system
Faculty (#) *** 620 770
Facilities As needed As needed
Budget: size As needed As needed
Research budget: sources (% 80 percent 70 percent
govt.)
Global ranking Not to be ranked (too early) In top 200
* Assumes GDP growth of approximately 5% and growth of RK's R&D expenditures from the
current 0.17% of GDP to more than 1% by 2025 and 1.5-1.7% in 2030. In this scenario, NU's
research budget request is not out of line.
** Cambridge is famous for developing a strong commercialization program over a ten-year period
starting in 1999.
*** Based on a 13/1 student teacher Ratio. NU will strive to maintain a 10:1 ratio, but to do so will
require roughly an additional USD7 million per year. This number does not include foundation year
instructors. Optimal faculty-student ratios depend on the way classes are taught including the use of
digital classrooms.
Below we explore these indicators in more detail.
30 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
By 2025
NU will gain international recognition as the leading higher education and research institution
in emerging markets and Central Asia and one that measures up well against the world's best
universities. NU will not seek international ranking during this first half of the new strategy to
avoid the ranking system typecasting it before it is fully developed and internationally competitive
at the highest levels. Thus, ranking will take place late in this strategy period, toward the 2030
endpoint. A study analyzing the characteristics of the leading 200 international universities will
be carried out to help management and the Board understand what is realistic on the ranking front.
NU will also have a substantially larger total student body of about 8000, double today's number.
NU will have a vibrant innovation and entrepreneurial culture that generates significant new
inventions. Many successful enterprises will emerge, and the citizens of Kazakhstan and the world
will see NU as a center of innovation and a developer of new businesses. NU will intensively
partner with industry to commercialize its research results 5.
NU's medical complex will be a full-fledged integrated medical system which will be at the forefront
of the transformation of Kazakhstan's health system. NU's medical school will be producing
doctors, nurses, researchers and public health professionals who can compete in a global market on
quality grounds; NU's medical system will be producing cutting-edge basic and applied research
serving not only the people of Kazakhstan but the world. These attributes will lead to increased
medical tourism in Astana, especially from the surrounding region and to the development of new
business lines.
By 2030
NU should be well established among the world's top 200 universities. NU will be a globally
recognized center of teaching, research excellence, and innovation.
The ABC will be in full swing. It will be the home of NU's growing list of startups. Kazakhstan's
and the region's business leaders will see NU as the first port of call for solutions to their technical
and business problems, and as an eager and reliable partner in developing new business lines. NU
will support Kazakhstan's bid to be a global leader in mining and other extractive industries.
NU will produce not only the PhDs and scientists that the society needs, but also the inventors and
entrepreneurs needed to diversify the country's economy and provide its citizens with jobs, and
public-sector policymakers and managers.
By the end of this strategic period, NU graduates will be intellectual, scientific, government,
civil society, and business leaders - at the forefront of efforts to shape and build the Kazakhstan
described in Kazakhstan 2050, and to advance other societies.
5 For some recent successes in university/industry partnerships see: "INDUSTRY-UNIVERSITY
PARTNERSHIPS WORK Lessons from successful collaborations," report commissioned by the Science Business
Innovation Board AISBL, 2012.
| 31
7. STRENGTHENING THE SENSE OF UNITY AMONG NU'S PARTS
In reviewing the strategy statements presented by various NU units (Appendix A gives selected
summaries), one of NU's challenges for this upcoming strategic phase will be to strengthen the
linkages among NU's parts. At all top universities, the sum is greater than the parts.
By necessity, NU began with attention to its parts: creating new schools and new laboratories.
Strategic partners cautioned to avoid at all costs the creation of silos. While the "walls" of NU's
silos remain low, they nonetheless exist, and NU is committed to dealing with them.
In the coming decade, the various elements of NU will be pulled together to strengthen the sense
of one university and to foster interdisciplinary research 6. This pulling together could range from
restructuring schools to realize efficiency gains to strengthening the incentives for school and labs
to collaborate on interdisciplinary research. Another unifying instrument is the core, cross-school
curriculum that are implemented in fall 2018.
To achieve NU's full potential, however, efforts at collaboration will have to go beyond structural
changes to the development of a culture of cross-unit collaborations. Only then will multidisciplinary
research become instinctive.
8. ACCOUNTABILITY
NU has absorbed considerable national resources since its inception. NU should be held accountable
for a core set of KPIs (see Table 7) and for steady, year-on-year betterment. Under this strategy,
NU would deliver significantly more on all key aspects of the university by 2025, and even more
by 2030.
While it is difficult to predict when NU will break into the top 200 universities in global rankings,
once NU submits itself to global ranking it is reasonable to expect NU's ranking to improve, maybe
not every year, but certainly over five-year periods. The same is true for research publications, and
innovations and patents: NU should be held accountable for steady improvement in all these areas.
Of course, the primary measure of NU's effectiveness will remain the quality of its graduates.
NU can develop this new system of accountability only through a combination of international and
national expertise and through interactions with the Government. Again, the experience of some of
NU's strategic partners that are also dependent on state support may be helpful in navigating these
difficult waters, for example, the "land grant" universities in The US.
6 See "Facilitating Interdisciplinary Research", Pages 171-185 Committee on Facilitating Interdisciplinary
Research, National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, 2005 for idea
on organizing universities to promote interdisciplinary research.
32 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
9. CHALLENGES
Any country that sets out to build a world-class institution of higher education faces multiple
challenges. Jamil Salmi in his The Challenge of Establishing World-Class Universities cites
14 potential pitfalls (Appendix E summarizes Salmi's pitfalls). For the most part, NU in its first
eight years has managed to avoid or overcome those pitfalls. However, they still serve as a good
reminder of what to beware of moving forward, just as new challenges are emerging.
NU's Challenges in this Strategy period
NU senior management undertook a "SWOT" (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and
Threats) analysis to determine the scope of NU's future challenges. The results of this analysis are
presented in Appendix A.
Growth - Plans call for a doubling of NU's student body from the current roughly 4000 students
to 8000 students by 2025. This planned growth will present many challenges including ensuring
that NU's faculty, staff, and facilities keep pace; and especially adherence to NU's merit-based
admissions policies and emphasis on quality over quantity.
Reach - Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, Kazakhstan has provided Central Asia and other
former Soviet states with a model of economic progress, stability, and globalization.
Increasingly NU will have to clarify its regional aspirations as Central Asia is changing rapidly and
is also growing in global and geopolitical importance. Kazakhstan and NU are in a strong position
to lead and influence this change. What should NU do with support from the Government to play
a stronger regional role, especially considering the competition from other regional universities?
NU's membership in the Asian Universities Alliance is a step in achieving this goal, but follow-up
will be important. Some NU Schools such as the Graduate School of Public Policy (GSPP) have
already started to reach out to Central Asia and the Caucasus, and others will follow.
Shared vision and values - NU needs to ensure that its internal stakeholders, namely management,
faculty, researchers, staff work towards a shared vision and build common values so that there
is agreement on what constitutes a "World class" university. Achieving this shared vision is
important also towards NU's enabling environment. This shared vision must build on the shared
values of merit, respect, trust, transparency, and accountability. As with all institutions, adopting
and communicating these elements of institutional culture must start at the top.
Strengthening NU's governance structure: NU's Board of Trustees and the concept of "shared
governance" both loom large in the determination of NU's future. NU's Board could benefit from
additional independent Board members. Shared governance in which faculty and researchers
participate in the university's management is a common feature of top universities. While most
decision-making councils at NU have faculty, researchers and student representatives, NU will
explore further venues to build a stronger sense of participation and voice.
Closing the remaining cultural gap - Building a global-quality international university from
scratch is a tremendous task in any country. In this strategic period, NU must address several
culturally based challenges. The fact that NU faculty is mostly international while the administrative
staff is almost entirely nationals may create some frictions due to misunderstandings. A strong
sense of team based on trust, respect and a sense of common purpose among the NU community
may help overcome cultural differences.
Bureaucracy and red tape - All universities wrestle with perceptions of government bureaucracy.
NU is no exception. Within NU, bureaucracy creates tension between mostly international faculty
| 33
and mostly national administration staff because the former often do not understand the bureaucratic
constraints under which the latter have to work or the consequences of not following the rules, and
the latter do not understand the cost of the bureaucracy to faculty.
Research - To be internationally competitive, published NU's research must be globally cutting edge and
path-breaking published in top journals. As NU's research programs mature, NU will need to link itself
more intensively to global research centers of excellence. In today's world, top research in most disciplines
is a team sport, and NU researchers must ensure that they are members of recognized global teams in their
areas of expertise. NU's partners could play an important supporting role in achieving this objective.
In parallel, NU is also called on to contribute to Kazakhstan's modernization and growth to
lead RK to the vision of 2050. To play this critical role, NU must apply its research skills to
priority issues for Kazakhstan as well. Therefore, developing research collaboration with other
Kazakhstani universities and research centers will be important. However, NU's main contribution
to the country's future remains the development of future leaders.
Two rapidly developing elements of NU's education and research landscapes are doctoral and
post-doctoral programs. We can now confidently ascertain that NU bachelors are very competitive
internationally, but it is important that they also 'live' the culture of top global universities. Thus,
we encourage our graduates to continue their studies abroad. Once they finish, we also want them
and other talented graduate students to contribute to the development of Kazakhstan.
Consequently, NU will ramp up its offerings of high-quality Ph. D. programs - and efforts to
attract international students - and expand the number of post-doctoral research positions. NU has
recently increased the number of post-doctoral position both to jumpstart the development of a
campus-wide research culture and import role models for our students, but also to attract returning
diaspora through competitive packages (financially and research opportunity-wise) and thus grow
potential future faculty for NU as well as other Kazakhstani universities. Postdoctoral researchers
will also support faculty research. The proposed development of NU satellite offices located in
areas with significant Kazakhstan diaspora could also help in developing a pipeline of candidates.
Focus - A key challenge in the coming decade will be to develop NU's "brand," in particular on
the international scene. NU will define its niche by focusing on areas of comparative advantage
and concentrating its resources to create critical mass. While this is initially a research challenge,
it will quickly migrate to the other spheres of our activities. Addressing the challenge of focus
also means therefore to consolidate - be it around a manageable number of key research themes of
importance to the world and Kazakhstan, or in the other NU mandates.
Human Development Issues - Universities are if nothing else about developing human capital.
While students naturally take center stage, the development and retention of high-quality faculty,
researchers, and of top-notch administrators are critical for NU's future growth and development.
Staff development - NU is always likely to have a significant number of international faculty
members, but it will continue to seek qualified Kazakhstan nationals who can grow into leadership
positions. A challenge here is that Kazakhstani faculty and researchers who meet NU's high
hiring standards are often well settled at top universities in other parts of the world which can
make it difficult to attract them back. Nevertheless, attempts to tap Kazakhstan's diaspora will be
increasingly important. Plans are underway to develop NU Satellite offices in areas of the World
with high concentrations of the academically oriented Kazakhstani Diaspora. NU plans the first
office in the Bay area of Northern California to open in 2018 or 2019.
At the same time, developing its current high-quality national staff further and retaining them
is in NU's and the country's best interest. Therefore, NU will strengthen its staff development
34 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
programs, including clarifying career paths. Consequently, the best and brightest will start to form
a talent pool not just for NU, but also for other higher education institutions in Kazakhstan. Staff
development will include an active program of talent development and retraining.
As to its international faculty, NU plans to roll out an enhanced onboarding and professional development
program to acquaint new faculty members on arrival to the special features and nature of NU and of
Kazakhstan. This enhanced orientation will provide them a better ability to "hitting the ground running"
and ensure rapid integration into NU's community. With faculty from over 50 countries, such training is
essential to ensure that all members of the NU community understand and embrace NU's core values.
Faculty Retention: The pace of NU's initial development dictated that we initially devoted most of
our time and resources to recruit new faculty and staff. However, moving forward, NU will adopt
a more balanced approach that shifts attention from recruitment to retention.
NU decided not to adopt a tenure system but fixed-term contracts with gradual increasing lengths.
This decision reflected the recognition that a new university in what is a relatively unknown country
would have to recruit over several generations to build the faculty it desires to retain. The steady
improvement in faculty quality, in research, has validated this approach.
However, it is also the case that the relatively short initial contracts, while protecting NU from having bad hires
around for a long period, does not reassure NU faculty and gives them an excuse to begin looking for their
post-NU position early on. Inevitably, the best faculty will quickly come to the attention of other universities,
forcing NU into a competition. Sending early signals to the best faculty of NU's long-term interest in them
could avoid this situation. NU is exploring options to manage the term contracts more flexible.
Finances - NU will have to move toward a more independent financial footing during this strategy period
to give the university more financial security and flexibility and lighten the burden on the Kazakhstani
taxpayer. NU will increasingly focus on developing a variety of income streams; these could include:
i. Tuition;
ii. Research grants;
iii. Income from economic activities (royalties on, or sales of inventions and patents) and
industrial collaboration; and
iv. Income from alumni contributions and selective access to endowment funds
In the context of the planned growth in NU's student population, it is neither practical nor desirable
to expect Government to expand the number of scholarship grants for NU students. Thus, tuition
income will play an increasingly more important role. NU must manage tuition ('pricing") in a
way that ensures NU's competitiveness, yet also continues its merit-based admissions policy. An
effective needs-based fellowship program ensures that all qualified Kazakhstanis can compete for
places at NU regardless of social and economic status, and provides financial relief to the needy
students such that NU's "social elevator" function remains intact.
Priority tasks for NU will be to study a viable and practical means of determining "needs" in the
Kazakhstan context, while also negotiating with Government to provide scholarships, not as a
fixed amount tied to a specific student but rather as block grants. This shift would allow for more
nuanced and efficient use of scholarship funds.
NU will increasingly seek research grants from non-government sources inside and outside of
Kazakhstan. NU's capacity to attract external grants will depend on its reputation and on the ability
of its faculty and researchers to collaborate with top researchers elsewhere. NU's unwavering
commitment to a merit-based system of entry and exit is critical to this reputation, as are the
successes of its graduates and the research output of faculty and researchers.
| 35
In parallel, faculty and researchers will be encouraged to increase collaboration with industry and
business via contract research and to license of the results of NU research. The Astana Business
Campus is expected to play a growing role in this endeavor as will the international advisory
council of the Graduate School of Business.
A growing loyal alumni group will be important to NU future financial sustainability. Creating
a supportive alumnae group will take time and resources, and alumni must see NU as staying
relevant to their career aspirations such as by offering life-long learning products. NU is working
on an outreach strategy to develop this important relationship. Increased philanthropic giving may
also require revisions in Kazakhstan's tax code.
In the meantime, NU's endowment must be tapped wisely and prudently as it will take time for the
country to develop a culture of contributing to university endowments, and for NU's alumnae to
have the financial wherewithal to be able to help (re-)build the endowment.
Even with best effort on all these fronts, NU will continue to seek recourse to Government financial
allocations for years to come. However, gradual gains in discretionary resources will increasingly
make large differences in NU's ability to deliver on its full potential.
Internationalization of the Student Body - In the next decade, a major NU's goal is to diversify and
internationalize its student body as NU's graduates will have to lead Kazakhstan in an increasingly
globalized world and to contribute solutions to global challenges. To provide regional leadership, NU must
have a student body that includes top students from other Central Asian countries. To be comfortable in
a globalizing world, NU students must learn and live with peers from other nationalities and cultures. In
this regard, NU has set an ambitious target for the growth of its international student population: to move
from less than a half of one percent today to ten percent by 2025. And to at least 12% by 2030.
Increasing internationalization will require a significant targeted outreach program coupled with
considerable scholarship support (see App. E for details). The outreach work will also require
collaboration and continuous consultations with Government bodies and other leading Kazakhstani
universities in creating an attractive image and conditions for international students with the goal
to make Kazakhstan as an education hub in Central Asia.
NU's Organization - NU's current organizational structure - a series of distinct schools and
laboratories - was a natural first step in its development. As NU moves into the next phase of its
development, however, NU management must continue to address the following questions:
a. Is NU's current school architecture the best and most efficient one? What principles should
underpin decisions on the future of NU's structure?
b. How and when will the digital revolution affect NU's organizational structure as well?
c. What will be the organizational implications of NU's focus on strong interdisciplinary
research programs 7?
d. What principles will shape decisions on whether NU should:
i. Develop branch campuses
ii. Establish additional schools, and
iii. Maintain or combine existing schools?
Considering Kazakhstan's large number of higher education institutions, it seems quite doubtful
that NU would develop a domestic branch campus system in the period to 2025. Rather, NU will
strengthen relationships and build partnerships with the country's other top universities for mutual
benefit. This outreach could be digitally-based as referenced to above (the "digital knowledge
7 See op cit., "Facilitating Interdisciplinary Research"
36 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
web") with NU at the hub. As also mentioned earlier, NU plans to set up satellite offices in areas
with significant diaspora part to attract them to NU and gain their collaboration. These satellite
offices will serve multiple purposes and could at an appropriate time become NU's international
branch campuses.
When thinking about whether to set up additional schools, NU will review the demand and need
for such significant initiatives, but at this point, we would first look at whether the current school
architecture is the most appropriate one. Even with the planned strategic expansion of the student
population, NU will remain a compact university and has to keep asking itself whether it will have
enough critical mass to develop synergies across related disciplines and whether it can keep silos
from developing.
An area that will see significant organizational and structural development is related to NU's
innovation and commercialization cluster and related ecosystem. Startup pitching events have
increased in frequency and scope, and more students, as well as young entrepreneurs from
outside the university, participate with a palpable increase in interest and enthusiasm. NU has
proposed plans to expand its IT-related co-working space and incubator and accelerator functions
for digital start-ups to the post-EXPO area while maintaining similar functions for engineering
and laboratories-oriented entrepreneurs on campus. Further developments are on the horizon with
the expected arrival of companies' R&D and pilot production sites on campus and at the ABC.
Corporate sponsorships will also be sought to establish a 'design center' for students to encourage
interdisciplinary problem-solving thinking and product development.
Evolution of NU's Partnerships - Our strategic partners have been an integral and critical part
of NU's development since its inception. However, today's NU is a very different institution than
the one partners saw when NU launched the partnerships. During NU's early days, the partners
were in a consulting role to NU, helping NU prepare curricula, recruit faculty, delivered courses
as needed, advised on policies, and instructional support. Today, NU schools have established
curricula and quality faculty, NU has put in place university-wide policies, academic and research
decision-making bodies, quality enhancement framework, etc., and has learned to stand on its feet.
The need for partners remains, even though the nature of the partnership must change and grow
to reflect NU's rapid development. NU desires to advance to the next stage of partnerships with
the Strategic Partners that of partnerships between equals as NU ramps up its research efforts and
looks to further connect to global centers of research excellence.
NU's partnerships need to move in two different directions - from school-based to university-
based, and from formal contracting arrangements to less formal faculty-to-faculty arrangements
based on shared research interests. Both sides of the partnership will need to facilitate faculty-to-
faculty and student exchanges.
It is noteworthy that NU has in the meantime become co-founder of a new institutional partnership
arrangement, the Asian Universities Alliance (AUA). The AUA, launched in 2017, brings together
fifteen top Asian universities to foster faculty and student exchanges and research collaboration
to address together some key global challenges of this century, but also to raise the profile and
recognition of Asian universities. NU intends to invest in its traditional and in its new partnerships
to straddle the proverbial East and West and build a truly global outlook.
The effects of changes in Kazakhstan's secondary system - While disrupting Kazakhstan's
university system through the creation of NU, President Nazarbayev also launched a program to
reform Kazakhstan's pre-university education. The vehicle of choice is the network of the Nazarbayev
Intellectual Schools (NIS), NU's sister organization covered under the same legal framework.
Currently, 20 schools operate throughout the country. With international technical support, NIS
| 37
has adopted curricula and developed textbooks, teaching and assessment methodologies of highest
international standards. Today it offers for instance accredited International Baccalaureate (IB)
and "A" Level programs and is preparing trilingual students for entrance into NU, but also the
world's best universities.
NIS's outreach to the rest of the school system takes the form of increasingly making available
its textbooks to and training teachers of the other schools. NIS has been the first school system
moving from an 11-year to a 12-year program, a move that will be followed by the general school
system. It brings the country more in line with global standards. As the NIS program spreads to
other schools, the number of high school graduates who qualify for admission to NU is likely
to rise as will the preparedness of incoming students. This increase in qualified candidates will
facilitate NU's plans to increase its student population substantially over the next decade.
Furthermore, with better prepared high school graduates, future NU undergraduate entrants may
not need a full year of preparation to succeed at NU, which means that NU will be able to recalibrate
its Foundation Year Program (NUFYP) substantially. One possible new direction would be to
"spin" NUFYP off as a separate entity that serves all top universities in Kazakhstan and not just
NU. It could then prepare students for entry into the world's best universities, including NU.
Complacency - Overall, NU has done very well to date. The risk is that there may be a temptation
by some to say, "We have done enough." NU management will have to walk a careful line between
stressing NU's accomplishments and signaling that much still has to be done.
10. FROM ASPIRATIONS TO REALITY
This strategy focuses on setting out the issues NU will likely face in the coming years. As a first
step in launching this strategy, NU management will organize working groups to develop detailed
implementation plans for each challenge identified, the working groups established to follow up on
the EUA recommendations could serve as a good model.
Since it opened, NU has built a strong foundation on which this new strategy will rest. Delivering
on the country's vision for NU is within reach, but as the previous chapter demonstrates,
challenges remain. Meeting these challenges will require continuous concerted efforts by all
parties and stakeholders, that is the national leadership, university leadership, and faculty, students,
administration, and NU partners. The payoffs for the people of Kazakhstan make this effort not
only worthwhile but also essential. However, we must also remember, NU is only one-third along
its way, there is still much to be done
38 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
APPENDIX A: NU SWOT ANALYSIS
Strengths: Weaknesses:
• The quality of students; • Country's global position;
• The success of graduates ("NU ambassadors"); • Short initial contract of faculty - need a more
flexible system;
• Student involvement in communities - giving
back; • Less than optimal-relations with the rest of the
country's universities;
• A growing domestic & international reputation;
• Overdependence on government support;
• National reputation: pride in NU's brand;
• Communications, both externally and
• High-quality international faculty;
internally;
• Departing faculty leave for high-quality
• Isolation from rest of country's universities;
appointments, signaling both the quality of NU's
faculty and NU assignment as a good stepping • The spread of NU values still work in
stone for further career development; progress;
• Departing faculty as ambassadors; • Lack of agreement on what a "world class
university" is;
• Strong support from the Head of State;
• International/national divide;
• Robust quality enhancement system;
• Faculty/administration divide;
• Low walls around NU Schools (as yet);
• Weak essential services: IT and HR;
• Youthful, energetic & flexible institution with
willingness to change as needed; • Bureaucracy, especially in financial and
procurement matters;
• Foundation laid for innovation ecosystem;
• Attractive to high-quality national staff;
• High motivation of all members of the NU
community (students, faculty, staff);
• A residential campus, increasingly important as
NU raises its intake of international students;
| 39
Opportunities: Threats:
• Research leadership in Central Asia • Country's increasing risk aversion and
intolerance of failure;
• (CA) and increasingly beyond;
• Global and regional competition for faculty,
• CA regional leadership;
researchers, and students;
• Strong relationship with neighboring countries;
• Instability from neighboring countries;
• Growing geopolitical importance of Central
• Uncertain research budget: amount and
Asia;
predictability;
• Strengthen support to Faculty, including more
• High government funding relative to the rest of
faculty exchanges; Increased student exchanges
the university system makes NU a target;
and internships;
• Government fiscal situation, reducing its
• ABC's potential as an outlet for NU graduates;
ability to support the next phase of NU's
development, especially ABC construction;
• Continuous innovation, especially digital;
• Staff burnout especially among "first
• Strong contribution to "Digital Kazakhstan"
generation" national staff;
• Increased interdisciplinary research;
• Diminished ability to attract the best
• Internationalization of student body; national staff and the best international
faculty/researchers because of reduction in
• Review School structures for efficiency gains;
competitiveness;
• Collaboration with other universities within
• Brain drain.
Kazakhstan and in Asia;
• Development of traditions and brand:
the "NU way".
40 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
APPENDIX B: SUMMARIES OF UNIT STRATEGIES
Center for Preparatory Studies (CPS)
The vision for CPS to accomplish in the next few years is first, to refine current academic programs
and develop new ones, especially commercial programs; second, to cut operating costs by becoming
more efficient; and third, to become internationally recognized.
The Center for Preparatory Studies (CPS) now delivers two academic programs: the Foundation
Year Program (NUFYP) and the Zero Year Program (NUZYP)-a pre-master's program to prepare
graduate students for study at Nazarbayev University (NU).
NUFYP: Although Kazakhstan has already begun introducing a 12-year education system, and
the expectation is that more students will be ready to apply directly to NU's undergraduate schools,
there remains a need for a foundation program for the immediate future. The vision for CPS is to
reach the brightest students in Kazakhstan who have not yet achieved a sufficient English level
to study at NU and to give them the opportunity for a great education here in Kazakhstan. This
goal is good for Kazakhstan, and it also helps NU reach its goal of doubling the student body.
Furthermore, since foundation programs or similar type programs are necessary even in English-
speaking countries such as the UK and the USA, it should be expected that there would remain
a need for some Kazakhstani students, especially to prepare them to study in a quality, research-
focused University.
NUZYP: CPS was asked to begin a pre-master's program in 2017. The first cohort finished in
May 2018, and the feedback from the students is positive. The goal of the University is to see this
program more than double in size, and CPS is ready to refine and adapt the program to meet the
needs of NU's graduate schools.
Becoming More Efficient
CPS is in the middle of reducing its operating costs through reorganization of its structure and
renegotiating contracts with faculty. CPS expect that even though it will now operate two programs
and teach more students that it will still be less costly to operate.
CPS will seek to become internationally recognized. CPS could take several directions could,
but it has not yet decided on the exact. One effective method is to become accredited by CEA
(US organization), BALEAP (UK organization) or both. Accreditation would make CPS an
attractive place for students in the region to come and learn English - the biggest obstacle for many
students to overcome when pursuing advanced studies. Furthermore, if CPS can lower operating
costs, the tuition would be more realistic for students, and CPS can contribute to NU's goal of
increasing internationalization.
NUFYP Options Task Force Findings and Recommendations
The NUFYP Options Task Force met during April, May and June 2017 8, to:
• Generate between three and six viable program options for NUFYP, considering both the
coming changes within the University undergraduate curriculum for a common first year
and in Kazakhstan's secondary educational system;
• Assess the relative strengths and weaknesses of each option;
8 Meeting dates: 27 April, 4 May, 18 May, 25 May and 8 June, 2017
| 41
• Recommend to the Provost, Academic Council and the President the best overall NUFYP
program option; and
• Propose a staffing plan that can effectively and efficiently deliver the proposed NUFYP
program option.
We aim for the Foundation program to be benchmarked against international standards. For
instance, the program could ideally be considered as an acceptable Foundation program for
U. K. Russell Group universities and other universities in USA, Australia, Canada and other
potential undergraduate destinations. It is worth noting that UK and Australian universities
typically prefer "pathway based" programs, while US universities prefer English language skills-
based programs.
A 2016 student survey shows that this program is meeting and exceeding students' expectations. We
would like to move forward with care so that we retain the important lessons of the past seven years.
These recommendations are consistent with NUFYP Program Aims and Foundation Learning
Outcomes while meeting the changing needs of undergraduate schools through preparing students
specifically for the new core curriculum. The NUFYP Program Aims and Learning Outcomes are
subject to regular revision, consistent with the NU Quality Enhancement Framework.
These recommendations are based on a review of the Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools curriculum
and aim to encourage advanced students.
School of Humanities and social sciences (SHSS)
At its core, SHSS exists to advance scholarship and teaching related to the problems that face
Kazakhstan as it continues its economic development and secures its place in the global society
of the 21st century. We believe that the greatest challenges facing Kazakhstan, the region, and the
world in the coming decades are fundamentally human and that the work that we do will ensure
that those leaders and citizens challenges are prepared to solve them.
Our academic offerings prepare students for the needs of the current labor market in Kazakhstan
and go further to equip them with an orientation to knowledge and entrepreneurship that will
prepare them for any circumstances that they may not yet foresee. Our students will be the leaders
equipped to solve the social problems of the post-industrial world, and they will approach them
with a strong orientation to Kazakh culture, the history of the Republic, and community. This
education content will ensure that they do not lose sight of what makes the country unique as it
finds its place in the global community. We also provide courses and programs that underpin the
curricula of other Schools to ensure that all NU graduates share this commitment to the human
dimension of whatever subject that they study.
Research is the foundation for all of the work that happens in SHSS. Our scholars represent the span
of modern Social Science and Humanities disciplines, and they include experts familiar with nearly
every part of the world. We strategically recruit specialists from Kazakhstan and the Central Asian
region as well as scholars with methodological and theoretical expertise strategically important for
Kazakhstan. In particular, we have strengths in Eurasian Area Studies, Geoinformatics, Migration
and Social Integration, Gender Issues, Language Transformation, and Security and Diplomacy. As
the School grows, we seek to increase our international profile through the capture of large external
grants and publication in the leading scholarly outlets. We also intend to develop international
research centers that will establish NU as the world's leading institution in Eurasian Area Studies,
Development Economics, and related areas.
42 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
As we become the global leader in research on the Eurasian region, we will leverage that advantage
to develop research partnerships with global institutions and at the same time, integrate more local
scholars and institutions into our work. Through this, we will become a critical point of articulation
between local and international scholars. Through our relationships with local institutions, we
will also seek to develop local capacity, translate the NU experience, and learn to understand our
facilitating environment better. At the same time, SHSS is a self-aware community committed
to modeling best practices in the areas of inclusion and governance. The School is establishing
internal policies and procedures to ensure that all community members feel secure to pursue their
fullest potential.
School of Engineering (SEng)
The number of student intake is expected to grow substantially in the next few years. To
support of this growth, the number of faculty members in each of the four Departments (i. e.,
Civil engineering, Chemical engineering, Mechanical engineering, and Electrical & Electronics
Engineering) is expected to grow to about 20 by 2020. Currently, there is a shortage of faculty in
some Departments, particularly in the Civil and Chemical engineering. Most of the Departments
also need more experienced faculty members. In the past, there is a lack of good applications for
the advertised faculty positions. This trend has changed in the recent recruitments. The School is
constantly reviewing its hiring strategy and process to meet the recruitment challenges.
There are other challenges in addition to faculty recruitment:
• Currently, the programs are supported mainly by government grants.
• There is a need to diversify the student population and admit international students, especially
from regional countries. To achieve this internationalization goal would require improvement
of the curriculum and training facilities to attract international students. The changes to the
undergraduate curriculum to satisfy ABET requirements have started, and there are plans
to do likewise to the postgraduate programs. Regarding facilities, the School is expected to
move into the new building in block three this year2018. It may take another few years to
equip the labs with proper apparatus and trained technicians.
• The School research performance regarding publications and funding to date is good
considering the availability of research facilities and personnel. The School research
performance is expected to improve with the new facilities in the new research building,
which is expected to be ready soon. Also, the University has provided more information
and opportunities for research funding. The School has plans to link these opportunities
tactically to the Ph. D. program with strategic research directions to better coordinate and
utilize the limited resources to enhance research performances.
As the School develops, there is also the need to expand the Departments and add new programs to
meet the anticipated workforce training needs of Kazakhstan. The strategy is as follow:
• Renamed some of the existing Departments and introduce new programs. The SoE could
rename the Department of Mechanical Engineering to Mechanical & Aerospace Department,
and it could rename the Department of Chemical Engineering to the Chemical & Materials
Engineering, and the Department of Electrical & Electronics Engineering to Electrical &
Computer Engineering.
• Create two new Departments, i. e., the Department of Bioengineering and the Department
of Industrial Engineering. These Departments would be able to introduce new programs to
meet the workforce needs in emerging fields.
| 43
The strategic move to rename and create the new Departments would require additional financial
resources from the University.
We have aligned the School development with the wider NU community and goals, which is
heavily research and innovation oriented. Kazakhstan's 2050 vision is to reduce the dependence on
oil and gas so that the share of non-energy in total export would double by 2025, and triple by 2040.
Creating new programs in bioengineering and industrial engineering would support the nation's
next phase of industrialization. Also, the new programs would also focus on entrepreneurship and
the creation and design of novel products based on the application of scientific theories and sound
engineering principles. This reformed education is designed to lead to an increase in domestic
entrepreneurship and through that to an increase in small and medium enterprises to support the
economy by 2030.
School of Mining and Geosciences (SMG)
The School of Mining and Geosciences (SMG) was established in March 2016 and aims to educate
tomorrow's earth science leaders for Kazakhstan, the region, and the world. The school will expand
knowledge and technology through teaching and research for the prospecting, extraction, recovery,
and utilization of earth resources.
The strategic partnership with Colorado School of Mines, one of the top institutions in the area
of earth science education and research, will help to achieve this vision by supporting curriculum
design and delivery, faculty recruitment and mentoring in teaching and research, quality assurance
and accreditation advise.
SMG has a long-term mission to establish the full spectrum of engineering and applied science
programs in the earth resources, water, energy and environmental science. However, the initial stage
of the school will cover three main areas including Mining Engineering, Petroleum Engineering,
and Applied Geosciences.
These areas will be supported by undergraduate degrees leading to Bachelor of Science (BSc) in
Mining Engineering, Petroleum Engineering and Applied Geosciences and Postgraduate Master
Programs will lead to Master of Science (MSc) degrees within the same areas of study. SMG
will establish Ph. D. programs within these areas in conjunction with the School of Science and
Technology and School of Engineering of NU when the School expands and develops its research
capacity. Furthermore, the school envisages offering postgraduate degrees within the areas of
Mineral and Energy Economics as well as Metallurgical Engineering and Material Science.
SMG admitted students in a two-year Master program in Mining Engineering in fall 2017. SMG
will launch is launching the undergraduate degrees in Mining Engineering, Petroleum Engineering,
and Applied Geosciences in fall 2018. Also, SMG is accepting students for Master's in Petroleum
Engineering in fall 2018. SMG will introduce a Master in Applied Geosciences and Ph. D. programs
in fall 2020 in conjunction with other relevant schools.
44 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
School of Science and Technology (SST)
The 2016-2020 strategic plan of the School of Science and Technology (SST) aims to support the
Kazakhstan 2050 national strategy, within the framework of the core values and the broad mission
of Nazarbayev University (NU).
The mission of NU, and more specifically of SST, supports five of the seven priorities defined in
the 2050 Strategy. Specifically:
• Economic policy of the new course;
• Comprehensive support of entrepreneurship;
• New principles of social policy;
• Education, training, and retraining for advanced knowledge and professional skills; and
• Strengthening the statehood and development of Kazakhstan.
The strategies and goals of SST were developed to achieve significant progress towards Kazakhstan's
aspiration to achieve preeminence in the world stage. The SST plan emphasizes the unique role of
the School as an integrative partner serving the country's broad portfolio of social, economic and
scientific reforms through its breadth of program excellence. The strategic directions of SST for
2016-2020:
• Improve the quality of the student body;
• Enhance the student learning experience;
• Foster faculty excellence and faculty effectiveness;
• Set best practices and standards for research;
• Establish research funding initiatives; and
• Establish human resources in research.
Future directions
• Accelerated integration of research into teaching by augmenting coursework with research
internships and providing relevant lab experiences for undergraduates;
• Packaging and re-branding our unique skills in computational sciences into a comprehensive
program of Data Science to address Digital Kazakhstan needs.
• Full-scale adoption of the Core Curriculum and its common set of learning outcomes
reflecting the unique NU identity, so that all our students share the same experience of a
rigorous intellectual! Development, regardless of their school or major.
• Closer collaboration with the School of Medicine to empower the emerging Health Cluster
in Astana.
• Sharpening the foci of our graduate programs and complementing them with an array of
short-term topical training, targeting the needs of the country.
• Emphasizing the importance of critical thinking for the scientific method and the use of
good evidence to base conclusions by availing our students of key courses in Humanities and
Social Sciences.
• Careful cultivation of innovation and entrepreneurship skills of our students to empower new
product and service development in the national interest.
| 45
Graduate School of Education (GSE)
GSE grounds its strategic vision in the mission of Nazarbayev University. NU bases its mission
on the vision embedded in President Nazarbayev's Strategy 2050. Strategy 2050 outlines a broad
vision for a comprehensive reform of education in Kazakhstan. A key component of this educational
reform has been the creation and establishment of Nazarbayev University.
The School must play a central role in promoting educational reform in Kazakhstan at all levels
of the educational system, promoting best practice in such areas as early childhood education,
primary and secondary schooling, technical and vocational schooling, and in institutions of higher
education. We must do this through the production of world-class research on educational challenges,
issues, and reforms, the provision of training programs at the master's and doctoral levels, through
offering professional development activities for educators at all levels, and by providing a model of
exemplary educational practice in our context at Nazarbayev University.
The school will seek during this period to embark on external evaluations. We would initiate such
a process through our internal quality assurance mechanisms for programs and research. The
evaluations are pivotal to the international rankings of the school and NU.
Graduate School of Business (GSB)
1. CAPACITY: Faculty Recruiting & Retention: 35 faculty by no later than 2030 (prefer by
2025) to support programs, research & engagement (areas: finance, accounting, marketing,
management, operations management, and technology/IT. We aim for 35% domestic faculty
by 2030.
2. PROGRAMS: Increase of Student Body across Programs (national and 20% international):
A minimum of 50 students per cohort per degree program by 2025 (except for Ph. D.);
a total of 800 non-degree participants by 2025.
3. RESEARCH: Obtain Faculty Productivity Recognition: 75% scholarly academics
(research-active faculty)a nd ranked in the international research rankings (Shanghai
Jiao Tong, UT Dallas, and FT list). Participate in cross-functional research centers across
campus (Innovation Lab, Big Data, Industry 4.0).
4. IMPACT & ENGAGEMENT: Obtain international recognition through accreditation
(atl east AACSB)a nd appearance in research rankings (see above)b y 2025. Increase
engagement activities (conferences, research symposia, events, media mentions,
international advisory board, case study series).
Graduate School of Public Policy (GSPP)
Mission
Our mission to improve "the quality of life of the people of Kazakhstan and Central Asia. We
do this by training leaders to improve governance through excellence in teaching, research, and
executive development that focuses on key policy and leadership challenges."
46 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Teaching
One of the key strategic objectives of GSPP is to equip and train Kazakhstani and Central Asian
public sector leaders with the relevant knowledge and skills of good governance. GSPP has so far
done this by running both Credit Bearing and Non-Credit Bearing courses and programs.
GSPP's academic offer has expanded over the years with the launch of a Master in Public
Administration in 2015 and a Ph. D. Program in 2017. GSPP plans to launch, from the academic
year 2020-2021, an Executive Doctoral Program.
These programs have so far been successful as evidenced by the fact that courses are well received,
and student enrollment has increased significantly over the years and is expected to grow even
more in the next few years - from 100 students in the academic year 2017-18 to 335 students in
2024-25.
In addition to launching new degree awarding programs, GSPP has also offered several non-
credit-bearing courses. GSPP designed and delivered for a wide range of stakeholders Executive
Education Programs devoted to evidence-based research practices, health policy, and management,
public councils, transformational leadership, to the applications of behavioral insights to public
policy, and to the essentials of policy development
Research
Research is one of the areas in which GSPP has made significant progress. Our research output
has increased in absolute terms, the output per faculty member has increased, and the quality of
publications has considerably improved.
In the 2013-2017 period, the research output of GSPP has increased by 17 times. This result
is partially due to the increase in the size of GSPP faculty, and it is also because the research
productivity of GSPP faculty members has significantly increased. After the expansion of the
faculty in 2014, GSPP faculty members produced 15 publications in 2015, which corresponds to
1.875 publications per faculty members. In 2017, the 15 (resident/visiting) faculty members of
GSPP produced 34 publications or 2.27 publications per faculty members. This output represented
a 21 percent improvement in just two years. The quality of GSPP publications has also increased.
All of GSPP journal articles now appear in peer-reviewed journals- most of which are indexed in
Scopus or the Web of Science and have a high impact factor.
In line with the goals that Nazarbayev University plans to accomplish by 2030, GSPP aims to
continue to increase the quantity and the quality of its research output.
Service
GSPP regards itself as a service school, in the sense that in addition to carrying out its teaching and
research duties, GSPP expects to continue to serve the NU community, the university, and a wide
range of stakeholders from our enabling environment.
GSPP believes that its product and services are in line with the Strategy Kazakhstan 2050 which
identifies seven priority areas: developing a strong human resource base; managing well energy
resources; developing a green economy; building efficient urban and regional economies while
establishing more decentralized; more powerful and more accountable governance mechanisms;
diversifying the economy; promoting global and regional integration; and, last but not least,
building institutions.
| 47
With regard to developing human resources, especially in the civil service, GSPP has already
conducted several workshops, seminar and training sessions for civil servants. And, in the coming
years, GSPP plans to conduct more and better programs.
In addition to organizing, designing and delivering workshops, seminars and executive education
programs for various stakeholders, GSPP faculty members regularly give talks in local ministries
and often provide expertise that Ministries may require. GSPP faculty provided expert opinion on
legislation (Office of the General Prosecutor, OCSE), codes of conduct (Agency of Civil Service
and Anti-Corruption), research and diagnostics (Nur Otan's Public Policy Institute). GSPP faculty
members participated in the induction program for the newly elected MPs and the evaluation
of the Academy of Public Administration under President of the Republic of Kazakhstan; and
GSPP has also provided - in line with NU's first mission - training to faculty members from other
Kazakhstani universities on research methods.
GSPP's commitment to serving stakeholders is also evidenced by the fact that several GSPP faculty
have been appointed to various working groups, Such as: the working group on improvement of
anti-corruption legislation established by the Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption,
the working group on cooperation with Akimat of Astana city and the working groups on
"Kazakhstan-2025" Strategy set up by the Ministry of National Economy. GSPP faculty members
are also appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Republican Center for Health Development of
the Ministry of Health and the Commission for the Modernization of the Supreme Judicial Council
of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The way forward
In the next few years, GSPP expects its student body and its faculty size to increase, to produce
more and better research, to serve the University, the community, and the various stakeholders.
GSPP also plans to expand and deepen its expertise.
According to GSPP's strategic plan, the size of GSPP faculty is expected to triple in the next seven
years to match the needs and the demands of a growing student body.
The expansion of the size of the faculty will enable GSPP to gain expertise on new topics and
issues that are beyond the areas of expertise of the existing faculty. The expansion of the faculty
will also enable GSPP to deepen its expertise on a few, strategic areas And to have a critical mass
of scholars with similar research interests and to establish itself as a center of excellence both at
the regional and at the global level in such strategic areas such as public sector and civil service
reforms in Central Asia, energy security and natural resource governance, economic diversification
and sustainable development.
Integrated Academic Health Care and School of Medicine (SOM)
Our Strategic priorities in which we will invest our time and efforts to ensure success and long-
term sustainability are:
Human Capital - we want to create a supportive environment to recruit and retain the most
talented faculty, staff, and learners. Our strategy will focus on career development, life-long
learning, professionalism, job satisfaction with competitive remuneration, building local capacity
and foster a sense of belonging to the NU Medicine community of educators, researchers and
healthcare professionals.
Biomedical research - we want to become the leaders in translating laboratory-based discoveries
into the development of novel treatments, new medical devices, and diagnostics. To do so, we
48 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
will continue to integrate research, education and clinical care with the ultimate aim to promote a
healthy lifestyle and prolong the life of the people of RKZ. Our priority will be the development
of large-scale multi-disciplinary programs aligned with the main principles of integrated health
care systems and the health priorities of the country. Our efforts will focus on the 4Ps of modern
medicine: Predictive, Preventive, Participatory and Personalized. E-health with the application of
digital tools applied to health care will empower patients to take responsibility for their wellbeing,
and to become the decision makers in the predictive, preventing and treatment options.
Education and Training - we want to innovate and continue to transform our existing professional
programs in medicine, nursing and public health as well as developing new programs in pharmacy,
sports medicine at master and doctoral levels. We want to build a culture of effective learning and
education in our hospitals and research centers to ensure that all healthcare professionals are well
equipped with the skills, knowledge, and competencies to practice modern medicine. We will
continue to disseminate our models of education and training to the other medical universities in
the RKZ but emphasizing their global impact and international dimension.
Patient- and family-centered care - we want to be the leader in the delivery of high quality,
safe and effective, evidence-based, patient- and family-centered care. In our hospitals and clinics,
patients and families will be listened to, informed, respected and involved in their care. Care will
be customized to reflect patient needs, values, and choices. SoM will integrate the acquisition of
the kills, knowledge, and competencies for the delivery of team-based patient- and family-centered
care into the learning outcomes of our health care professional programs at every level (graduate
and postgraduate).
National Laboratory Astana
Mission
• To carry out fundamental, interdisciplinary and applied research that addresses the nation's
most pressing science and technological challenges.
• To promote Kazakhstan's green economic and technological development, and to become a
world-class institution well-known in research, academic and clinical excellence.
Vision
• To be internationally recognized institution delivering cutting-edge, high-quality science
and technology to accelerate the nation's socio-economic development and innovative
achievements in green economy
Strategic Priorities
"National Laboratory Astana" should be a key instrument for the solutions of actual problems in
priority research areas as life sciences, energy and advanced materials science, global environment
and geoscience, computer science.
NLA - NU is in the process of undertaking a review of the NLA to ensure that it meets two
objectives: first, that is seamlessly integrated into the wider NU community. Second, that it truly
plays the role of a national lab by working closely with other laboratories in Kazakhstan and
around the world. The NLA is a center of the international level with unique material and technical
resources and staff, who implement scientific inventions in breakthrough areas of knowledge for
the solutions of the most actual national and global problems.
| 49
Scientific priority areas of NLA are selected in compliance with basic priorities of socio-economic
development of the country, Strategic Development Plan of the RoK until 2020 as follows:
• Integrate, fundamental and applied research with the purpose of creation and development
of a unique scientific-technological basis for the implementation of state strategic mega-
projects;
• Develop new areas of science, development of innovational technologies, professional
training of staff, who will ensure national security and competitiveness and enable economic
growth of the country;
• Assure conditions for implementation of the mission through technologies of new generation
technologies, infrastructure, and operational activities;
• Develop of state-private partnership for intensification in development of priority areas of
science, technique, and technology with the active commercialization of scientific research;
• NLA within international cooperation strives to become an equal partner with leading
world scientific, academic centers, national laboratories, companies, specializing in the
development of scientific-technical products.
Innovation Cluster
In the Address speech to the people of Kazakhstan dated 27 of January, 2012 the President of
the country emphasized that the Innovation Cluster should be formed within NU, which would
facilitate the transfer and creation of new technologies. This was the basis and prerequisite for the
formation and development the Innovation cluster within the NU.
To implement the instructions of the Head of State, elements of the infrastructure of the Innovation
cluster of the Astana Business Campus (hereinafter referred to as the Cluster) were created,
including the Commercialization Office, the Office of Contract Researches, the Business Incubator,
the Pilot Technopark and the Experimental workshop.
Currently, the Cluster's activities include a system of support for start-up projects, contract research,
commercialization of projects and management of intellectual property rights, professional services,
as well as infrastructure development and attraction of innovation companies.
Startup Projects Support System, established at NU, provides such support instruments as a business
incubation program, business acceleration of projects, funding and residency in the Technopark.
In the future, the University will work on further improvement of this system, expanding it with
additional support tools, with the focus on high-quality launch of start-ups and market promotion.
In cooperation with the international venture fund I2BF Global Ventures, a pilot fund I2BF-ABC
Seed Fund was established to invest in promising and high-tech start-up projects.
Over the past two years, three acceleration programs and one incubation program for innovative
projects have been conducted at NU. The total number of projects that have completed the
acceleration program - 32 projects, 7 projects have graduated from the incubation program. Projects
are selected in such priority areas as IT, industry 4.0, biomedicine, new energy, clean technologies,
agricultural technologies, etc. Among the participants in the acceleration and incubation programs,
a significant proportion of the projects are conducted by NU student.
One of the promising projects that have passed an acceleration program is a project by NU student
called "Spot Spray System" - this is a smart system of spraying agricultural plots with herbicides,
which allows to reduce costs and increase yields using computer vision technology and machine
learning. This project is recognized as one of the 25 most promising global startups at Google
50 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Campus TelAviv Computer Vision, held in Tel Aviv. In addition, the project attracted foreign
investment in the amount of 110,000 US dollars from the Hong Kong Venture Fund ARTISAN.
Another priority direction of the Cluster is the development of cooperation with the industry and
the involvement of the scientific and technical potential of NU to conduct contract research aimed
at solving technological tasks based upon the order of the industry. Thus, contract research projects
have been conducted for international and domestic organizations such as World Bank, USAID,
Shell, Total, Petrofak, ERG, Samruk-Energo, Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B.V. at NU.
Following the results of contract research, experimental facilities and research laboratories have
been established on the territory of NU to carry out joint work with the industry.
At the same time, NU in cooperation with other leading universities of the country plans to
implement projects aimed at addressing and introducing new technological and innovative solutions
for subsoil users as part of their annual obligations to finance Research and Development.
Since January 1, 2013, the system of commercialization of the developments of researchers and
employees of NU is in operation. Following the results of the implementation of commercialization
projects, today a pool of technological solutions and intellectual property objects has been formed,
licensing agreements have been signed for the sale of products. The total number of funded
commercialization projects is 21. As a result of project implementation, 63 applications have been
submitted for the protection of intellectual property rights, 46 domestic and foreign patents have
been received (40 domestic, 4 Eurasian, 2 US), 3 licensing agreements have been signed. Also, NU
is working out possible options for cooperation to promote NU developments to foreign markets,
including US markets.
The official opening of the pilot Technopark, which is one of the elements of the Cluster, was held
on July 18, 2014. To create a favorable Cluster environment, an appropriate infrastructure has been
created at the site of the pilot Technopark, basic services have been launched, including technical
services such as design, prototyping and pilot production services, as well as project support
services. To date, all available areas of the pilot Technopark are occupied by the innovative projects
and companies. The total number of residents is 17 innovative companies. Among the residents
of the pilot Technopark there are companies that have undergone an acceleration program, as
well as companies established on the basis of projects of scientists and employees of NU. Anchor
companies are also attracted.
In the near future, NU, based on the accumulated experience, will continue to work on the
development of these priorities, which will ensure the further development of the scientific,
technical and innovative potential of the University.
Work on the development of the Cluster will be continued taking into account the factors and
challenges of the modern economy, including the conditions of the fourth industrial revolution.
| 51
APPENDIX C: EUA IEP RECOMMENDATIONS
Governance and decision-making
1. Given the dichotomy between predominantly foreign academic staff and primarily local
administrative staff and students, review processes should take place regularly to make
sure that all sectors of the university continue to work for the same goals.
2. Discuss and negotiate with strategic partners about changes needed in partner relationships.
3. Continue plans to hire a Chief Information Officer and develop a comprehensive and
university-wide information system that includes building up an integrated student database.
4. Ensure that the faculty is aware of university-level support services and, if necessary,
improve them.
5. Improve internal communication for better alignment between academic and administrative
staff constructively, both formally and informally, to ensure an understanding of common
rules, regulations, and procedures and strengthen the collaborative spirit between the two
parties.
6. Streamline and harmonize administrative processes and approach, investigate if NU needs
more harmonization between school and central administrative processes. Additionally,
rethink cooperation patterns and balance of decision-making power between academic and
administrative decision-making staff.
7. Set clear rules for donation and other private funding to maximize their benefit and to
continue to ensure NU's integrity.
Quality culture
8. Build up the Institutional Research Unit to analyze information within a coherent quality
enhancement strategy.
9. Continue implementing the quality enhancement system to internalize quality culture
at NU fully. Set up a university-wide system that enforces NU strategy and priorities,
and ensures a common understanding of quality while continuing to respect the specific
approaches and needs of the schools, but without adding additional administrative burden
on staff.
10. Bring quality enhancement of administrative, governance, research and student services
into the overarching quality enhancement system.
11. Implement the ESG systematically in the internal quality enhancement approach.
52 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Teaching and learning
12. Stake out longer-term career paths for academic staff, including the possibility of tenure, to
ensure the sustainability of academic staff and the research capacity of NU.
13. Set in place different promotion criteria to focus as much on didactic and service merits as
on research and considers differences between disciplines and publishing practices.
14. Allocate additional core administrative staff to eliminate the considerable administrative
burden on academic staff and to facilitate their teaching and research work.
15. Give deans more autonomy to use grants for the staff in their schools as they see fit.
16. Set up a single student services office where NU does the allocation of the service internally,
and which would reduce the administrative burden on students.
17. Expand career services to graduate students.
Research
18. Work on increasing trust between the local administrative staff and the international
academics.
19. Work out how links can be established between the national research centers and NU to
achieve a synergy and research opportunities for staff and graduate students.
20. Develop research strategies and sustainable research teams as well as cooperation
arrangements between schools, research institutes, and laboratory facilities.
21. Make it easier to use allocated research funds from non-state sources within set rules, but
exploiting them as much as possible.
22. Expand research support services to help staff with proposals, fund allocations, etc.
23. Make every effort to implement the ambitious research plans by, e. g., attracting top research
teams and individuals.
24. Implement plans to set up post-doc and research assistant positions with career plans for
NU graduates and create opportunities for Kazakhstani and international Ph. D. candidates
and post-docs to work in an international research environment at NU.
25. Create milestones and indicators for the ambitious research strategy implementation
covering individual researchers, research groups, and the university.
26. Implement the ALLEA Revised Code of Conduct for Research Integrity.
Service to society
27. Continue to make activities in society visible to ensure ongoing goodwill.
| 53
APPENDIX D: THE FUTURE OF KAZAKHSTAN'S UNIVERSITY SYSTEM
Part I: Current changes in higher education 9
11 core universities: creation of education- research- industry link
The main strategic documents that shape current higher education landscape in Kazakhstan
are State Program for Education Development 2016-2019 and State Program for Industrial and
Innovative Development 2016-2019. In line with the these two state programs MES selected 11
core universities in the regions that focus on teaching and research in metallurgy, petroleum and
chemistry, food industry, mechanical engineering, construction materials. These universities
receive more funding, better facilities and exercise academic freedom on postgraduate level
programs.
Starting from 2016 the universities heavily involve relevant industries in the region to advise on
development of the programs for them and in defining the competencies the of the graduates.
Recommendations of large companies such as Kazakhmys, Kazzinc, ArcelorMittal (Temirtau),
Kazakhstan Gharysh Sapary, Kazakhstan Engineering, Kazatomprom, National Centre for
Complex Processing of Mineral Resources are reflected in the content of new educational programs.
24 programs have been developed together with international partners based on recommendations
of the industry.
Consortium of 11 universities developed partnership with international engineering community -
The European Network for Accreditation of Engineering Education (ENAEE), European Society
for Engineering Education (SEFI), American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE), the
International Federation of Engineering Education (IFEES). It is expected that these partners will
help universities in the specialized accreditation of engineering and science programs.
Core universities currently have 22 interdisciplinary laboratories that conduct research in priority
directions, number of labs will be increased to 48. This allows universities to conduct fundamental
and applied research with grant funding and carry out practical research on a contractual basis.
Universities also signed contracts with more than 300 companies in Kazakhstan, which determines
the strong employment prospects for graduate specialists.
Research Universities
A concept of the "Research University" has been introduced to increase research and innovation
potential of higher education in the country. Ministry of Education and Science plans to designate
5-6 universities (out of 125) as research universities. As of now, Nazarbayev University and
National Technical University named after Satpayev have been granted a status of the Research
University. These educational institutions are envisioned as centers of research and innovation, and
will receive a large share of government research grants.
At this stage there are other contenders for the status of national research university: Al Farabi
Kazakh National University, Gumilev Eurasian National University, Karaganda State University,
former two of them have already introduced substantial changes and entered the QS World
University Rankings, positioned 236 and 345 in 2016.
Research universities will also focus on creation of innovation clusters - technoparks, business
incubators, centers for commercialization and technology transfer, venture funds, engineering
9 Prepared by Marina Kishkentayeva.
54 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
centers that work in close cooperation with relevant industries. Apart from Nazarabeyv University
Technopark,3 TechnoParks been established in other local universities: one in Kazakh National
Technical University named after Satpayev, the other two in Kazakh National University named after
Al-Farabi and East Kazakhstan State Technical University named after Serikbayev. Universities
also created business incubators and commercialization offices.
Institutional autonomy
Starting from 2014 institutional changes are being implemented in all public universities of
Kazakhstan. As articulated in State Program for Education Development 2016-2019, about 50% of
the public universities will follow the pattern of Nazarbayev University and will gradually receive
academic freedom and institutional autonomy; The Program also defines that full academic
freedom and institutional autonomy will be granted to the universities which will successfully
pass the international accreditation.
The program also indicates that 95% of public universities in the country will have a shared
governance system by 2019. Up to now, Advisory Boards comprising of representatives of business,
local authorities and community leaders, have been established in public HEIs. Setting up Advisory
Boards was a first move towards institutional autonomy of the HEIs, further important task of
the universities will be to increase shared governance. "Universities will have to increase faculty
participation in collegial decision-making by reducing possible legal, organizational or cultural
barriers". (Hartley et all (2015)
The reforms have also begun to put in place new systems of accountability. From 2016 Rector's
work is evaluated based on key performance indicators. Rector has to present annual reports on
university activities to the public.
Further on, the universities will be given a right to establish Endowment Funds. As of 2010, only
Nazarbayev University was allowed to have an endowment. In 2012, Kazakh National University
was allowed to establish an alumni fund (Hartley et all (2015).
NU's contribution to the current changes
Since its establishment, NU has been seen as part of Kazakhstan's larger education reform
agenda, its role in shaping current higher education environment was substantial. Translation
of NU experience is carried out on an ongoing basis through trainings, seminars, workshops,
including during the annual Eurasian Higher Education Leaders Forum, as well as through joint
research projects. Over the course of 2013-2016 NU provided trainings to senior officials of public
universities, and mid-level managers to help them to manage the complex process of transformation
in higher education, to enable to them to understand system, environmental, institutional changes
that take place during the transition to institutional autonomy. About 300 executives from 34
national and regional universities have participated in the trainings under this program since then.
In support of the Ministry of Education and Science's efforts to modernize the country's education
system, NUGSE, international experts and faculty from Cambridge University and University
of Pennsylvania developed a Roadmap for Education Development in Kazakhstan 2015-2020.
Recommendation from the Road map had been reflected in the new State Program for Education
Development 2016-2019.
| 55
Part II. Future higher education environment in Kazakhstan
In positive scenario - by 2020 NU will continue its flagman-ship role; the research universities and
11 core universities in the country will follow NU's pattern. A portion of public universities will
have institutional autonomy after being internationally accredited, and almost all universities -
both public and private will have established shared governance systems. It is also expected that at
least 2 universities appear among top ranked 200 universities in QS World University Ranking by
2020. Beyond 2020 -most probably NU will continue to be looked as a national resource that sets
the tone and leads the changes in higher education.
There are different opinions on how the future of the universities will look like worldwide, as
higher education landscape is getting more complicated and uncertain. Some academics foresee
that the universities in the traditional form may disappear in the future, there will be no groups and
departments, education will be more personalized and lifelong learning will be a basic principle of
higher education. Student will need less time to complete higher education.
Selected Trends
Demographic Shape of
Tertiary Education in the Future
Continuing education Continuing education
Graduate education Graduate education
First degree First degree
Source: OECD (2010)
Many university administrators and academics agree that universities will continue to be knowledge
and research generators, more interdisciplinary efforts will be supported, analytical mind becomes
appreciated. Academics will still be needed to teach and conduct research. Challenges for
universities will be to determine what will be the right balance is between technology and human
contact. (Times Higher Education 2015)
List of literature:
1. State Program for Education Development 2016-2019
2. State Program for Industrial and Innovative Development 2016-2019
3. Ministry of Education and Science (2015) Annual Report on Education Development
4. Matthew Hartley, Bryan Gopaul, Aida Sagintayeva (2015) "Learning autonomy: higher
education reform in Kazakhstan"
5. Times Higher Education (2015) "Future Perfect: what will universities look like in 2030?"
https://www. timeshighereducation. com/features/what-will-universities-look-like-in-2030-
future-perfect
6. OECD(2010) http://www. slideshare. net/OECDEDU/oecd-mihaylo-porto-alegre-final
56 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
APPENDIX E: SALMI'S10 "PITFALLS" (OR ILLUSIONS)
1. Build a magnificent campus; expect magic to happen
2. Design the curriculum after constructing the facilities
3. Import all the content from somewhere else
4. Design with an OECD ecosystem in mind, but implement in a challenging environment
5. Delay putting in place the governing board and appointing the leadership team
6. Stack the board with political appointees
7. Plan for up-front capital costs, but pay little attention to long-term financial sustainability
8. Engage in mergers for the wrong reasons
9. Be too ambitious in the quantitative growth targets
10. Think that everything can be accomplished in 18 months
11. Rely exclusively on foreign academics without building local capacity
12. Neglect to integrate your foreign students
13. Focus on the global research scene at the expense of the local environment 14. Be obsessed
with rankings
10 Jamil Salmi is an international expert in the field of higher education, the author of the book "Challenge
of Establishing of World-Class Universities", "The Road to Academic Excellence: the Making of World-Class
Research Universities"
| 57
APPENDIX F: INTERNATIONALIZATION
"Internationalization at the national, sector and institutional levels is defined as the process of
integrating an international, intercultural, or global dimension into the purpose, functions or
delivery of postsecondary education" (Jane Knight, 2015).
In today's globalized world and linked economies, not only money, trade, communication, and
technology are fleeing across borders, but so do knowledge and skills. Today close to 5 mln.
students are studying outside their home countries, twice times more than 2.1 mln. about ten years
ago. The G20 countries enroll 82% of all international students." 11
There is a growing competition among higher education institutions in the world for the best-talented
students, faculty, scientists, administrators, and financial resources. An institution with a vibrant
and open environment is essential to the flow and exchange of multiple ideas, cultures, cross-border
and -discipline collaborations and research. The rationale behind internationalization lies in being
connected to the changing local and global environments, embracing international perspective,
providing relevant education, research, and services. How to create such an environment? What
needs to be done and developed?
One relevant definition states that "Internationalization is the process of integrating an international/
intercultural dimension into the teaching, research and service functions of the institution." 12
Philip G. Altbach states internationalization as a strategy for an institution "to respond to the many
demands placed upon by globalization, and as a way for higher education to prepare individuals for
engagement in a globalized world." 13
Internationalization for Nazarbayev University goes beyond student and faculty mobility and
covers large-scale activity related to the University academic, research and innovation activities.
Including administrative excellence, cross-border collaborations; being connected and competitive;
having internationalized and relevant curriculum and research; possessing language, area and
regional studies expertise; bringing the University to the international education and research
arena; recognition of the Nazarbayev University quality internationally and attracting international
students and scholars; and streamlining governance structure, campus environment, support
services and policies.
For students internationalization is expressed in being competitive in global labor markets,
understanding international issues, the ability to collaborate and communicate in an international/
intercultural environment, possessing knowledge of foreign languages, latest professional skills,
and technologies in the areas of specialization, being exposed and aware of other countries and
regions.
However, taking into consideration the current state of development and existing resources, the
next step for the years ahead will be to establish a more comprehensive, systematic, thorough and
detailed approach towards internationalizing and developing NU at the same time.
11 ICEFBerlin 2015 Workshop magazine, p.43
12 Knight, J. (1994) Internationalisation: elements and checkpoints. Canadian Bureau for International Education,
Ottawa.
13 "Trends in Global Higher Education. Tracking and Academic Revolution." Philip G. Altbach, Liz Reisberg and
Laura E. Rumbley. Sense Publishers, UNESCO Publishing 2010. pp.23-24
58 | STRATEGY, 2018-2030
Internationalization Vision
"Leading and globally connected university of choice for education,
research, and innovation located in Eurasia".
Priorities for Internationalization
1. Internationalization of governance and structures
2. Strengthening and leveraging strategic partnerships
3. Promoting international diversity and academic mobility
4. Curriculum internationalization
5. Strengthening research collaborations
6. Creating competitive advantage and continuous international benchmarking.
Overview Progress report since 2017 on NU Internationalization
NU launched the following aspects of Internationalization since the beginning of 2017:
1. Internationalization of governance and structures:
• NU Board of Trustees included two new international members, since May 2017 includes
50% international members
• NU's Board of Trustees established a Committee on Internationalization in June 2017
• School Boards also included international members, whereas Graduate School of
Business established International Advisory Board
2. Strengthening and leveraging strategic partnerships:
• Existing strategic partnerships are shifting to the next phase, including developing
academic student exchange
• NU became a member and co-founder of Alliances in Asia: Asian Universities Alliance
in 2017 and University Alliance of the Silk Road in 2016
• NU increases its presence and participation in professional Associations and now is a
part of 28 professional associations, started sharing its practices via prominent regional
Professional associations of international Education like AIEA, EAIE, IAU, etc.
3. Promoting international diversity and academic mobility (as of August 2018):
• 75% of faculty are international from 55 countries
• 35 international students from 18 countries
• Organized 5 and 8 summer schools in 2017 and 2018 respectively
• A gradual increase in student exchange with strategic partners, Erasmus+ and negotiations
with other partners
• Established international recruitment team
• Promoting NU Brand, participating in Exhibits, increased work with media internationally
• Established eight international alumni chapters
| 59
4. Curriculum internationalization:
• Annual review of curriculum with modifications and benchmarking
• Preparation to international program accreditation
• Core curriculum (general education) was introduced at bachelor level
5. Strengthening research collaborations (as of August 2018):
• NU researchers collaborate with more than 350 international institutions
• NU is number 1 in CIS in international research collaboration (71% of publications)
• NU researchers collaborated with 712 international institutions
• 852 co-authored international publications
• 11.7% of publications in the top 10% most cited publications worldwide
6. Creating competitive advantage and continuous international benchmarking:
• developing language and area studies expertise (MA in Eurasian Studies
• Summer School in Russian and Eurasian Studies)
• Went through the review of Institutional Evaluation Program by the European University
Association in August 2017
Further efforts and measures for sustaining and developing the priority directions in
internationalization will be taken continuously.