AI and the Humanities
Pyne Prize awarded to Princeton Class of 2026 members Braeden Carroll and Katie Daniels
The award is the highest general distinction conferred on an undergraduate. The students were recognized at Alumni Day on campus Saturday, Feb. 21.
Jacobus Fellows: Decker, Geadah, Kapoor and Rozinov win Princeton’s top graduate student honor
Historian Philip Decker, mathematician Victor Geadah, computer scientist Sayash Kapoor, and literary scholar Eliana Rozinov are this year’s Porter Ogden Jacobus Fellows.
Princeton research discovers surprising new avenues for tackling cancer and other diseases. It opens astonishing windows onto the world — across time and space. It helps secure the nation’s safety, prosperity and competitiveness. Learn more:
The search for the next big breakthrough.
A new path in cancer research.
Princeton paleontologist: Yes, tiny tyrannosaurs lived alongside T. rex.
PPPL partners with industry to accelerate commercial fusion.
A global race is on to unlock the quantum realm. Follow Princeton’s research.
Humanities at Princeton: Endless Possibilities
The humanities can take you anywhere — around the world and across time. At Princeton, the humanities come alive across more than 50 academic departments and programs , united by interdisciplinary connections. Watch our YouTube video and read more.
On YouTube: Humanities can take you anywhere
Humanities at Princeton: Taking big swings at big questions
Murthy and Seung win Wiley Prize in Biomedical Sciences for connectome mapping
The Wiley Foundation honored research into connectomes — detailed atlases of the brain that map out thousands of neurons and the millions of connection between them.
Black History Month 2026: Books, arts and studies for all
The University community is recognizing Black History Month with scholarly programs spanning the month, opening with a Princeton Public Library book talk and closing with a daylong symposium hosted by the Department of African American Studies.
NJ community college faculty and staff convene at Princeton for inaugural Transfer Pathways Institute
The conference, led by Princeton’s Program for Community College Engagement, focused on helping community college students successfully transfer to selective colleges and universities.
Seven faculty members win Sloan Research Fellowships for early-career researchers
Computer scientists Maria Apostolaki, Benjamin Eysenbach, and Yasaman Ghasempour; chemists William Jacobs and Erin Stache; physicist Isobel Ojalvo; and mathematician Bartolomeo Stellato are members of the 2026 cohort of fellows.
Princeton senior Brian Mhando awarded Gates Cambridge Scholarship
The awards give outstanding students from outside the United Kingdom the opportunity to pursue postgraduate study at the University of Cambridge.
Two professors receive grants from Schmidt Sciences to use AI to accelerate humanities research
Meredith Martin will use AI tools to parse English poetry across millennia. Peter Henderson is building artificial intelligence to better understand the law.
Stand Up for Princeton and Higher Education
Join the more than 10,000 Princeton alumni, students, faculty, staff and friends who are Standing Up for Princeton and American higher education. You’ll receive a periodic newsletter with information and suggestions on how you can help.
Sign up to receive the Stand Up newsletter.
Meet Princetonians who are standing up.
Family work among the Astors
Molecular 'switch' regulates mice paternal behavior
A theory of supply function choice and aggregate supply
Princeton faculty members are all exceptional scholars in their disciplines who are expected to teach as well as engage in research. Faculty work closely with undergraduates in the supervision of junior year independent work and senior theses.
An innovative scholar of visual culture and a founder of Black European Studies, Campt explores the tactile and sonic registers of images and contemporary art. She fosters collaborative creative expression as director of Princeton Atelier.
Griffiths’ research explores how studying AI can help us understand human cognition, and vice versa. His new book, “The Laws of Thought,” tells the story of using mathematics to explain how we think.
Narayanan studies the societal impact of artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Ramaswami, who also leads the M.S. Chadha Center for Global India, pioneered the science of sustainable urban infrastructure systems and its translation to policy-making.
Ellis works with archives and contemporary Native communities to illuminate lesser-known histories of early Indigenous America.
Lee’s research on Congressional politics and policymaking helps the public and scholars understand and address pressing issues in American democracy.
Fuentes studies the behavior, biology, and cultures of humans, our evolutionary ancestors, and other species we interact with, offering integrative insights that counter more simplistic narratives of the human experience.
Cheng’s "Ornamentalism" advances a groundbreaking theory about Asiatic femininity in western culture and was an impetus for the recent Monstrous Beauty exhibit at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Okeke-Agulu is a celebrated artist, critic, curator and historian of African and African Diaspora art. He is director of Princeton’s Africa World Initiative.
2023 Global Economy Prize winner Wantchekon came of age as a pro-democracy student activist in Benin.
Stone's fluid dynamics research connects engineering to chemistry, physics, and biology, with subjects including microdevices, swimming bacteria, flows of polymeric materials and respiratory virus transmission.
Bassler is a pioneer and global leader in discovering the astonishing ways that bacteria communicate. In January, she was awarded the National Medal of Science at a White House ceremony.
Adriaenssens is an engineering innovator, designing lightweight, elegant and resilient structures for sustainable buildings, bridges and other infrastructure.
Rustow uses machine learning to decipher thousands of Arabic and Hebrew fragments preserved in a medieval Cairo synagogue.
Princeton In the News
Doting male mouse dads share a genetic signature, new study finds
Princeton University Library marks America’s 250th with Revolutionary War artifacts and stories
Scientists create the most detailed groundwater map yet — with big implications for the West
Student Life at Princeton
Princeton brings together undergraduate and graduate students from all backgrounds, and every corner of the earth, to share their experiences and perspectives with one another. Make your mark as part of our vibrant community.
The Death Throes of Compé Anansi — Exhibition by Zavier Foster '26
2026 VIS Book & Poster Show
Our approach to learning combines the best aspects of a great research university and an outstanding liberal arts college.
Every employee has the opportunity to make an impact supporting our mission of teaching and research.
Faculty and Academic Positions