At Stanford, our mission of discovery and learning is energized by a spirit of optimism and possibility that dates to our founding. Here you’ll find a place of intellectual expansiveness, wide-ranging perspectives, and freedom to explore new lines of thinking. Buzzing with ideas and innovation, approaching questions with openness and curiosity, pursuing excellence in all we do – this is Stanford.
Stanford researchers make strides toward universal vaccine
Dyslexic children show differences in brain reading region
Study uncovers how schools circumvent suspension bans
Why the brain misunderstands speech after stroke
How elite athletes handle performance pressure
Rich learning experiences that provide a broad liberal arts foundation and deep subject-area expertise
Unsurpassed opportunities to participate in the advancement of entire fields of knowledge
Continuing adult education, executive and professional programs, and programs for K-12 students
Seven schools in which to pursue your passions
Profile of Renee Zhao
“The truly impactful technologies are always based on the condition that you can freely explore.”
Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Profile of Khoi Young, ’25
“There’s a lot to question – that’s one of the most important things I’ll take with me from my Stanford experience.”
Design major and three-time NCAA gymnastics champion
A residential campus with diverse housing, exceptional dining, and over 600 student organizations
Uplifting academic freedom and free speech; curiosity and critical inquiry; open, inclusive exchange of ideas; and civic engagement and citizenship
State-of-the-art facilities and fitness programs to encourage movement and play
Profile of Helena Zhang, ’22
“Art is an outlet and a starting point for me, for what I have to say.”
Graduated with a bachelor’s degree in human biology and a minor in art history
Innovative programs center the arts in research and education and expand the role of art across academic disciplines.
Museums and Public Art
The Stanford campus is home to two world-class art museums and features more than 80 outdoor installations, accessible to the public 365 days a year.
Stanford Live presents a wide range of performances by artists from around the world.
Leading a worldwide revolution in precision health through biomedical research, education, and clinical enterprises
Leveraging expertise and advanced technology  to deliver unparalleled care for each patient’s unique needs
The only health care network in the Bay Area – and one of the few in the country – exclusively dedicated to pediatric and obstetric care
Stanford’s 137 NCAA championships are the most for any university, a product of an unrivaled culture of excellence and continued support from the campus community
The Cardinal has produced at least one medalist in every Olympics in which the U.S. has competed since 1912, totaling 335 medals from 196 medalists
Stanford student-athletes have achieved local, national, and global impact through community involvement and advocacy
Explore the possibilities of a Stanford education as you map out your college journey.
We look for distinctive students who exhibit an abundance of energy and curiosity in their classes, activities, projects, research, and lives.
Stanford meets the full financial need of every admitted undergrad who qualifies for assistance.
More than two-thirds of undergrads receive some form of financial assistance. Generally, tuition is covered for families with incomes below $150,000.