Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 1
Strategies for
Stockholm University
2023 -2026
Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 3
Strategies for Stockholm
University 2023-2026
FUNDAMENTAL VALUES AND MISSION The strategies also include the university's 16 profile
-KNOWLEDGE, ENLIGHTENMENT AND areas, each of which comprises strong and broad
THE PURSUIT OF TRUTH research environments with high-quality education,
The idea of the modern university, shaped in the that collectively characterise the university. The
spirit of the Enlightenment, has characterised strategies guide the area-specific strategic plans in
Stockholm University ever since its inception. human science and science, and provide a common
Rooted in a millennial European tradition, universi- framework for other governing documents within
ties drive the emergence of new knowledge and the the university.
future society. Europe's multifaceted cultural and
educational heritage is a common ground for this. The strategies clarify, at an overall level, what the
The modern research university, with its collegial university wishes to achieve and the direction in
governance and research-based education, has a which this is to be implemented. The strategies are
central place here. implemented in close dialogue between the different
levels of the university, through layered leadership in
The university will actively promote the fundamen- which departments have activity-centred operational
tal academic core values of autonomy and aca- responsibility, disciplinary domains and faculties are
demic freedom, as enshrined in the Magna Charta responsible for recruitment and strategic develop-
Universitatum. Stockholm University has identified ment within the disciplinary domains and faculties,
knowledge, enlightenment and the pursuit of truth and the senior management team has overarching
as its additional core values as a higher education responsibility for the strategic direction of the
institution. These values shape the university's university. Through the short communication and
activities and are expressed through both research decision-making paths of layered leadership, the
and education. The university upholds these core university applies trust-based governance based on
values, not only for its own activities, but also due confidence in academic autonomy. This is a princi-
to the importance of research and education in pled position based on the premise that academic
society at large. The core values are based on the activities need a strong mandate. The organisation
conditions for academic work and on the university's creates conditions for strategic discussions as well as
fundamental mission-to contribute science-based collegial cooperation and accountability. Hence, the
knowledge. The core values create a common different parts of the university can further develop
foundation for everyone working at Stockholm their activities in coherence. The implementation
University; a continuous and lively discussion about of the strategy is a joint task and responsibility
the values that drive research and education forward involving the senior management team, teachers and
is therefore important. In times of global unrest, it is researchers, university administration and students.
particularly important to safeguard the open society, Collegial influence, student participation, gender
where science contributes to explaining and develop- equality and equal treatment should characterise the
ing knowledge about events in the world around us. work.
Through its broad activities and its strong position
nationally and internationally, Stockholm University STRATEGIC AREAS
will contribute to the development of fundamental The university has a broad mission. The university
knowledge, open academic discourse and democracy. plays a central part in knowledge development and
Bildung through free research and doctoral educa-
PURPOSE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE tion, and through the development of courses and
Woolly mammoth tusk emerging from permafrost on central
STRATEGIES IN THE ORGANISATION study programmes. The main role of research is to
Wrangel Island in northeastern Siberia. Research at the Center for
Stockholm University's strategies clarify the core develop knowledge within both new and traditional
Paleogenetics and the Department of Zoology.
values, direction and ambition for the future within disciplines, and in the intersections between the two.
the framework of four identified strategic areas. Universities play a crucial role in finding solutions
Photo: Foto Love Dalén
Production: Communications Office, Stockholm University, 2023
4 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 5
to, and disseminating knowledge about, climate Freedom in research requires that researchers are research is part of Stockholm University's profile, the university will continue to pursue collaborations
change and environmental sustainability-major free to formulate research questions, choose meth- and shall be specially promoted and made visible. on national and international infrastructure, and
challenges of our time. The world is at a critical ods and publish. Free research has an inherent inno- further develop the skills needed to develop new
stage where free research and higher education are vative power, and is crucial to the breadth, diversity Research on climate, the environment and sustain- infrastructure and exploit the opportunities offered
key contributors. Science is crucial to achieving the and excellence of research. It creates progress; ability is one of Stockholm University's areas of by existing infrastructure.
UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. free basic research produces future innovations. strength. Most of the research is conducted within
Through collaboration within academia, and with Stockholm University will continue to emphasize the departments, but there are also a number of col- The Stockholm University Library is an infrastruc-
other societal actors, the university will increasingly its strong basic research profile, and the importance laborations and centres of relevance to climate work, ture that encompasses both the physical book and
contribute with scientific analysis in the strife for a of research for knowledge development, research such as the Bolin Centre for Climate Research, the periodical collections and electronic resources. The
better world. It is particularly important to col- utilisation and solving societal challenges. Baltic Sea Centre, the Stockholm University Centre library is central to both disciplinary domains and
laborate with other higher education institutions, for Circular and Sustainable Systems (SUCCeSS), the has a nationally and internationally leading role
for example within university alliances such as the Research at Stockholm University shall safeguard Stockholm Resilience Centre (SRC), the Stockholm in how data and open science are stored and made
Stockholm Trio (consisting of Karolinska Institutet, quality, integrity and independence, which re- Environmental Law and Policy Centre and the hu- accessible. Through this, the university contributes
KTH Royal Institute of Technology and Stockholm quires that it is conducted in accordance with good man science collaboration between the humanities, to an open research society. The university will
University) and the European collaboration CIVIS, research practice. The research culture creates an law and social sciences in relation to the environ- continue to be a driving force and a frontrunner in
or in strategic partnerships with individual univer- environment for open and well-informed con- ment. Through its strong research environments, the transition to open science, in terms of access to
sities, as well as in forums such as the University versations about research ethics. The university's Stockholm University will develop its position at the both publications and research data. This includes
Reference Group for Research Infrastructure research must be continuously scrutinised through forefront of international research in climate, the encouraging collaboration and participation in
(URFI). Based on the university's mission, the both internal and external review processes. Within environment, sustainability and biodiversity. national and international contexts to promote
following strategic areas have been formulated to the framework of the university's research quality sustainable development in open science.
set the long-term framework and direction for the assurance system, research conditions and outcomes Access to and development of relevant research
university's activities. are reviewed through inter alia, external research infrastructure is key to conducting internationally BROAD RESEARCH-BASED EDUCATION OF HIGH
grants, publications, recruitment follow-ups and prominent research and to recruiting outstanding INTERNATIONAL QUALITY FOR INDIVIDUAL AND
• Stockholm University's research shall be interna- external focus evaluations. Based on the evaluations, researchers. Research and advanced research infra- SOCIETAL DEVELOPMENT
tionally leading and a driving force in the develop- the university identifies research areas that need to structure are developed in close interaction; access As a university in the capital, Stockholm University
ment of new knowledge. be strengthened and further developed or that can to infrastructure and the development of powerful operates locally, nationally and internationally. The
• Stockholm University's education shall be broad, inspire others through good examples. The goal is to new instruments and methods enhance the poten- wide range of general programmes, professional
research-based and of high international quality for achieve even higher international quality in research. tial for innovative research. Stockholm University's education and training, and freestanding cours-
the development of individuals and society. Stockholm University will safeguard its strong successful efforts to strategically and efficiently use es is unique. It is a central aspect of Stockholm
• Stockholm University shall have a well-function- research culture, which contributes to deep subject existing, and develop new, infrastructure through University's identity and is part of the transforma-
ing organisation with strong academic environ- knowledge and excellent research. international, national and regional collaborations tive power required in society. The academic breadth
ments, and work strategically with recruitment and will continue to be developed. The national collabo- creates the conditions for a wide range of collabora-
skills provision. External research funding is of great importance to ration within URFI is central to this. Collaboration tions and helps to make the university attractive to
• Stockholm University shall be a force in socie- Stockholm University. The university is successful within the Mälardalen Region and the national in- students with different backgrounds, both nationally
ty that contributes to democracy and sustainable in attaining both national and international grants. frastructure Science for Life Laboratory (SciLifeLab) and internationally. In particular, the universi-
development. Through competitive national and international should also be highlighted in particular. Experiences ty shall strive to further increase the number of
projects that involve the vast majority of the univer- from the successful establishment of SciLifeLab students enrolled in second-cycle courses and study
sity's faculty, the university will raise the ambition show the importance of cooperation between uni- programmes. The university shall also continue to
INTERNATIONALLY LEADING RESEARCH THAT level in its efforts to obtain external funding, both versities in developing a complex national research offer a broad range of programmes aimed at impart-
DRIVES THE EMERGENCE OF NEW KNOWLEDGE from European funders and from Swedish research infrastructure. Furthermore, the large databases are ing basic knowledge, relevant professional skills and
Stockholm University is a prominent research councils and private research foundations. of great importance for the development of social Bildung.
university characterised by both basic and applied science research. The university has also made
research in its two disciplinary domains, Science and Research and doctoral studies are conducted all significant investments of its own in infrastructure, The university campus shall provide a place for
Human Science, which includes the humanities, law through the university; the subject-related develop- for example in transmission electron microscopy education and research with beneficial opportunities
and social sciences. Through its research, the univer- ment that takes place in the departments represents and the establishment of the Stockholm University for interaction, collaboration and a vibrant student
sity is involved in a wide range of international and deep disciplinary knowledge with the potential to Brain Imaging Centre (SUBIC) and the Centre for life. A long tradition of campus life has demonstrat-
national collaborations. The university shall actively lead to scientific breakthroughs. Cross-disciplinary Palaeogenetics (CPG). Another example of neces- ed the value of people-to-people encounters-an
participate in international research arenas and and multidisciplinarity research contribute to the sary research infrastructure of a somewhat different interaction that contributes to understanding and
create conditions for vibrant and internationally out- scientific breadth of the university and involve col- nature is Stockholm University's field stations, where community between colleagues, between teachers
standing research environments, where the commit- laboration across faculties and departments. Several teachers and researchers can collect data, carry out and students and between students. Physical encoun-
ment and competence of teachers, researchers and of the university's centres have an cross-disciplinary analyses, teach and initiate dynamic collaborations ters create the conditions for knowledge sharing and
doctoral students are crucial. Doctoral students play or multidisciplinary basis. The research-intensive for periods of time. The geographical spread of the social interaction that are central to the organisation
an important role in building strong long-term ac- environments of these centres, which are subject to field stations-from Tarfala in the Kebnekaise mas- as a whole.
ademic environments. The university will therefore continuous collegial quality review, are a comple- sif in the north to the solar telescope on La Palma
ensure the future growth of research environments mentary strength within the broad research univer- in the south-provides unique opportunities for ob- Education at the university shall be of high inter-
by increasing the number of doctoral students. sity. The subject-related breadth and depth of the servations. Based on the evolving needs of research, national quality in content and performance. The
6 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 7
strong commitment of the teachers, combined with a tations that students and society have on education treatment. This means that leaders and managers bearer of academic values. This includes actively
high level of pedagogical and subject expertise, will are addressed. must have sufficient knowledge and prerequisites promoting open academic discourse that rests on a
further contribute to an educational environment to carry out active and systematic work on equal scientific foundation, consolidates knowledge and
focused on student learning. Inherent in this is that The transition to a more sustainable and re- opportunity and work environment. The work develops critical thinking. Research communica-
education should convey international perspectives source-efficient society requires changes at many environment must make use of the resources that tion is an important part of this, making clear the
and provide opportunities for international expe- levels. Progress in this direction is possible through employees with different backgrounds, life situations university's contribution to society. Communication
riences. In this way, students will be well prepared research-based education. Here, education in both and skills bring to the university. shall be developed to further highlight and dissem-
for a national and global labour market. Stockholm human science and natural science contribute to inate research results, and explain how knowledge
University shall pursue active pedagogical develop- relevant knowledge in relation to the broad scope A well-functioning operational support, both within can be used today or in the future. Communication
ment. The university shall attract the best students, of the Sustainable Development Goals. Knowledge the core operations and the administration, is also involves conveying the importance of scientific
regardless of their background. A broad student about climate, the environment and sustainability is required to conduct education and research of high methods and perspectives to increase public under-
base contributes positively to the study environment needed for society to achieve the overall goal of cli- international quality. Operational support shall be standing and confidence in scientific practices and
by providing a forum for more perspectives and mate neutrality. Stockholm University shall continue based on an understanding of the needs of education approaches.
experiences to be expressed. to develop environmental and sustainability courses and research; an organisational culture with good
and study programmes across disciplinary bounda- communication and a climate receptive to new ideas Stockholm University's climate work, the objectives
The active participation of students in the develop- ries; education that prepare students for a working is essential in order for the operational support to of which are expressed in the Climate Roadmap, has
ment of the courses and study programmes is an life in which these issues play a crucial role. handle the many complex issues within its re- a broad societal perspective. As part of its climate
important part of the quality work at Stockholm mit, such as support for quality development and work, Stockholm University is committed to being
University. Responsibility for effective student par- A WELL-FUNCTIONING ORGANISATION WITH communication, research and innovation support, carbon neutral by 2040. The target reflects the
ticipation is shared between teachers and students, STRONG ACADEMIC ENVIRONMENTS THAT WORK student and staff support, financial management university's strong profile in these issues. Stockholm
and between the student unions and the university's STRATEGICALLY WITH RECRUITMENT AND SKILLS and the exercise of public authority. The provision University's activities will be characterised by a clear
collegial boards and management. The student PROVISION of premises is a key strategic issue for which the and developed sustainability profile, which contrib-
faculty associations also play an important role. Stockholm University has a well-functioning or- administration is responsible, but one that covers utes to sustainable development primarily through
Students shall be given good conditions for student ganisation with delegated decision-making, where the whole university. All activities must increasingly its research and education, as well as through a
influence with a focus on the highest quality in ed- collegiality, responsiveness and communication are strive to optimise the use of premises. Data protec- reduced environmental and climate footprint from
ucation, a high student completion rate and a good leading principles. The collegial organisation has tion and information security, including information its own operations.
study environment. a long tradition and is based on the understanding technology, are further examples of strategic issues
that collegial influence is key to maintaining and affecting the organisation as a whole, where the ef- As the largest education provider in Sweden and
An important task for universities is to contribute to developing academic integrity and quality. The colle- forts and skills of operational support are becoming with its strong basic research and location in the
lifelong learning and the opportunities for individu- gial bodies and academic leaders in the line-manage- increasingly important and need to be developed. capital, Stockholm University has a unique societal
als to return to the university for further education. ment interact through the layered leadership in close Systematic information security and compliance mission. It is close to important societal functions
Labour market relevance shall be continuously taken dialogue between the different levels of the organ- with regulations shall be strengthened, and staff and offers opportunities for extensive interaction
into account and developed through dialogue with isation. This leads to a constructive management knowledge of the issues shall be increased. with other parts of society. The university's depart-
various societal actors and alumni. with clear forms for communication and knowledge ments work with a large number of external part-
based decision-making. These management princi- The digital working and study environment is of ners. Collaboration is part of the development of ac-
The range of courses and study programmes offered ples are central to Stockholm University and must be great importance to the entire university, whether tivities and involves an interaction in which flows of
at Stockholm University reflects the university's preserved. work or teaching is carried out on campus or online. ideas, problems, knowledge and resources between
strength and breadth of subjects. The education is Digitalisation work shall be based on an analysis of the university and external actors lead to mutual
characterised by in-depth subject knowledge and Employee competence is the most important factor the needs of education and research and the potential development. These broad forms of collaboration
the possibility of independent work with close links in creating success within the university. Teacher of digitalisation to create added value and increased will further develop. They benefit society through
to ongoing research, where students are supervised recruitment is the single most important decision quality. Students and staff must be met by effective the education of students and doctoral students,
by prominent researchers. This builds on a strong made and a key to creating strong academic envi- digital services and systems. Similarly, research must adjunct teachers, research communication, contract
research culture where teachers work in academ- ronments; the teacher recruitment processes of the be supported by appropriate digital services for data research, expert assignments, statements of opinion,
ically rigorous environments with both education faculties must be internationally aligned and lead to processing, storage of research data and making re- centres and institutes, and through innovation and
and research. As part of the living culture of quality, the strongest possible recruitment. Recruitment and search results accessible. In order to develop working support for ideas in the early stages of development.
the research basis in education shall continue to be promotion processes should increasingly be based methods and pedagogy, and as part of reducing the The university shall promote open dialogues and
ensured. on a broad assessment of qualifications, rigorous university's carbon footprint, the positive experiences create conditions for knowledge exchange, innova-
vetting and the long-term and strategic development of a more digitalised approach will be harnessed. tive solutions to problems and a better understand-
The focus of Stockholm University's internal quality of university activities. ing of how research results develop new knowledge
system for education is on strengthening and devel- A FORCE IN SOCIETY THAT CONTRIBUTES TO and provide benefit in multiple ways. Thus, society
oping the academic quality of its activities through Good leadership, both academic and administrative, DEMOCRACY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT is positively influenced while education and research
collegial processes. These include supporting initia- is a high priority and shall be given great attention. Since its founding in 1878 as a higher education are advanced.
tives for the quality development of academic activi- Stockholm University shall be an attractive work- institution in the capital, Stockholm University's
ties, as well as regular reviews of the conditions and place by offering competitive working conditions relationships with other parts of society have been Stockholm University engages in a wide range of
enactment of the education. The quality system shall and a working environment characterised by col- characterised by openness. In a complex society, collaborations with other higher education institu-
also ensure that the quality requirements and expec- legiality, social equality, gender equality and equal the university has a key function in being a resilient tions; collaborations with other research universi-
8 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 9
APPENDIX
Profile areas at
ties offer great potential for the organisation and
should be further developed. The recent Wallenberg
initiatives on data-driven life science and on research
on sustainable materials are two examples where Stockholm university
Stockholm University actively participates and
recruits researchers. In recent years, collaborations
and networks have also been strengthened through
partnerships in the Stockholm Trio and CIVIS uni-
versity alliances, which are strategically important
for the university and create opportunities for staff
and student exchange. The work within Stockholm
Human science
Trio is being developed, for example, by identifying POWER, DEMOCRACY & WELFARE
priority subject areas and developing master's pro- This profile area studies power, democracy and
grammes with close links to strong research environ- WORLDS & CONDITIONS OF CHILDREN AND welfare and how these fields interact with each
ments. CIVIS, a European university alliance funded YOUNG PEOPLE other. Research includes the study of major societal
by the European Commission, involves universities This profile area includes the study of children and challenges such as climate change, migration and
on two continents-Europe and Africa-and is young people as actors in school, peer life and fami- globalisation. Key research themes include digitali-
based on collaboration on jointly identified societal ly life, and their worlds of ideas, rights and vulner- sation and a reformed education system, an ageing
challenges. Strategic partnerships with individual ability. Learning, communication and identification population and a changing media landscape, and
universities, notably with the University of Helsinki are studied from the perspective of children and how these affect and are affected by management
and the University of Tokyo, will be further devel- young people. The area also includes the study of and governance at different levels. Proximity to
oped. Based on an analysis of the development of children's culture: literature, music, film and theatre government agencies and national policy feeds the
research and education, the university will also build productions targeting children, as well as the rep- area, and both education and research take place in
on collaborations and dialogues with other academ- resentation of children and young people in various collaboration with public and private organisations
ic institutions. artistic expressions, including style and fashion. at the local, national and international level.
A practice-oriented collaboration takes place with
Wars, political unrest and authoritarian repressive Stockholm County schools and an open seminar NORMS, LAW & ETHICS
regimes in the world have devastating consequences activity is conducted. The profile area studies norms, legal rules and
for individual citizens, civil society and social insti- regulations, as well as the limits and possibilities
tutions. In this perspective, responsible internation- INTERNATIONALISATION & MIGRATION of norms. Research and education in this area
alisation is key. Academic activity is transnational, The profile area studies the economic, cultural, include ethical issues of human and social behav-
and its strength lies in the exchange of knowledge linguistic, social and environmental consequences of iour. Research on crime and punishment occurs
between people around the world. At the same time, global flows of individuals, goods and information. in a variety of disciplines. For example, the profile
informed, research-based assessments of when and The infrastructure and networks resulting from area includes issues of human rights, international
how academic collaboration may need to be limited internationalisation and globalisation are also exam- conflict management and norm-critical perspectives.
in the light of geopolitical changes, security concerns ined. In addition, changes resulting from population There is extensive outreach in the form of expert as-
and politically authoritarian tendencies in an inter- movements, both in the present and in the past, are signments, dissemination of knowledge through the
national context are required. Stockholm University, studied, as well as the multilingualism that is a con- media and the drafting of consultation documents
with its broad expertise, will further contribute ac- sequence of migration. The research examines how on legislative issues.
tively to the work on these issues, which are complex the world is affected and changed by international
but highly pressing for the whole sector. flows, contacts and exchanges of ideas and services. SOCIETY, ORGANISATIONS & INDIVIDUALS
Societal institutions are created by individuals with
CULTURAL HERITAGE & HISTORICAL PROCESSES both shared and conflicting desires. The challeng-
The profile area examines how tangible and in- es faced by human societies change over time and
tangible remains from the past are preserved and are subject to continuous analysis and discussion.
attributed meaning in interactions between people The research and education in this area deals with
over time. Central partners include nations, states the well-being, attitudes, values and behaviour
and their institutions as well as international organ- of individuals both alone and in social contexts.
isations and, increasingly, local and regional actors. This profile area studies different goals and forms
The area studies how different forms of conservation of governance in nations, regions, companies and
include both passing things down and reinterpre- other organisations, as well as the media. There is
tation, and how the creation of designated cultural a long-standing and well-developed collaboration
heritage is a political process. The proximity to with, for example, governmental agencies and inter-
national archives, museums and other institutions national organisations.
in the region provides favourable conditions and
particularly good access to empirical material.
10 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026 11
LANGUAGE & LEARNING signals of light and neutrinos? How can energetic methods within areas such as biochemistry, bio- gases. Stockholm Resilience Centre (SRC) focus-
Language is a prerequisite for thinking, commu- particles that reach the Earth provide us with infor- physics, cell biology, molecular biology, structural es on sustainable development and resilience of
nication, learning and identity creation, as well mation about processes in distant galaxies? How are biology, neurochemistry, bioinformatics and bio- social-ecological systems and integrates social and
as for various aesthetic and cultural expressions. galaxies and stars formed? What is the dark matter technology. Studies include how membrane proteins natural sciences. The centre for broad transdiscipli-
Stockholm University conducts research and edu- and the dark energy that dominates the universe? are structured, how they are produced inside the nary research on circular and sustainable systems,
cation in some thirty languages. The profile area Research at the Departments of Astronomy and cell, how they function, and what role they play in SUCCeSS, is also a part of the profile area. The
focuses on issues in a broad field that includes lan- Physics seeks to answer these and related questions. the cell's energy metabolism. research within Climate, Seas and Environment pro-
guage learning and language didactics, multilingual- The research area includes theoretical research as vides a basis for decision makers at local, regional
ism and social interaction, as well as language histo- well as large-scale experiments and observations. CATALYSIS IN ORGANIC CHEMISTRY and international levels and contributes to a sustain-
ry and philosophy of language. Language is central Stockholm University conducts successful research able development of our society.
to e.g. law, literature, media, politics and various ATOMIC, MOLECULAR & COMPLEX QUANTUM on new, efficient and selective synthetic methods to
aesthetic experiences, which means that research in SYSTEM PHYSICS construct organic molecules through catalysis. The INTERACTIONS BETWEEN GENES, ORGANISMS &
the area focuses on both the instrumental functions This profile area covers a wide range of research: reactions that are developed contribute to a sustain- ENVIRONMENT
of languages and their cultural, representational from studies on the properties of isolated atoms, able production of pharmaceuticals, agrochemical The interaction between genetic heritage and the en-
and meaning-making expressions. Contact between molecules and dynamic processes when such systems products and other products of importance for our vironment affects all life, at species, population and
languages is also explored in the form of interpre- interact with photons or each other, to studies of society. individual levels. Environmentally induced selective
tation, translation and other multilingual practices. entangled photon and particle states, quantum pressure causes changes in genetic frequencies,
Researchers in the area move between millennia-old encryption, quantum information, cold atomic gases The research includes the development of catalysts resulting in geographic variation in individual char-
written remains and the problems and opportunities and topological quantum materials. In addition, the based on organic and organometallic compounds, as acteristics and the emergence of new species. These
of the digital age. profile area includes studies of clusters, the prop- well as on metal nanoparticles. Modelling with com- factors can with time lead to large-scale alterations
erties of liquids-especially water-and catalytic putational chemistry is an important component to of the biodiversity and ecosystem compositions.
VISUAL REPRESENTATIONS & INTERFACES reactions on surfaces. The research is pursued with understand the mode of action of the catalysts, thus Environmental variation also leads to physiological
Today's research and education in human science development of new theoretical and experimental facilitating the design and synthesis of new, and im- adaptations and can cause rapid changes in gene
increasingly uses various forms of images and vis- methods, in the latter case often with strong ele- proved catalysts. Catalysis is an important principle expressions by modifying regulatory proteins and
ualisations to convey, visualise, interpret or illustrate ments of instrument development. Atoms, molecules within Green Chemistry, and catalytic methods are non-coding RNA, but it can also cause global and
complex phenomena and contexts. Examples of and clusters are studied and manipulated using ion also essential in the synthesis of complex molecular more long-term changes. The latter include changes
this include graphs, charts, diagrams, illustrations traps and ion storage rings; laser radiation is used systems that are needed in other research areas, such to the genome, changes in its organization and func-
and aesthetic expressions and, increasingly, vari- to control the properties of individual photons, and as material science, energy production (solar cells) tion through so-called "epigenetic mechanisms",
ous forms of digital interfaces. In addition, there is the time structure of the radiation is used to study and in life sciences. and the evolution of plastic traits that adapt the indi-
research on how people relate to, interact with and ionisation dynamics and achieve intertwined photon vidual to expected environmental variation through
create visual representations. All of this places great states and the teleportation of quantum states, as CLIMATE, SEAS & ENVIRONMENT natural selection. At Stockholm University, interac-
demands on continuous methodological and theo- well as manipulate quantum materials out of equi- How the oceans and Earth's natural climate and tions between genes, organisms and environment
retical development and also creates the conditions librium on ultra-fast time scales. Free-electron lasers ecological systems have developed over time and are studied extensively, including how organisms
for new types of interdisciplinary meeting places and synchrotron light facilities are crucial for catal- function today and how they are affected by human adapt to their surroundings and cellular responses to
within the university and between the university and ysis studies, studies on new properties of water in activities are central questions to this profile area. environmental change at the mechanistic level. How
various external actors-ranging from cultural and various forms, as well as studies of other materials. Impacts of climate and land use change on biodi- genes, organisms and environment interact is central
research institutions to companies and government Using ion storage rings, ion-ion collisions are studied versity and ecosystem services as well as sources of for all life on Earth, not least when it comes to our
agencies. with new powerful methods-including applications pollutions and their toxic effects are other important own health.
in astrophysics. fields of research within the profile area. The broad
research being conducted at Stockholm University MATERIALS CHEMISTRY
Natural science BIOLOGICAL MEMBRANES comprises specialised studies and interdisciplinary In the field of Materials Chemistry at Stockholm
Cell membranes have a central function in biochem- approaches to advance our understanding of these University, important research is conducted with the
ASTROPHYSICS, COSMOLOGY & ical processes inside the cell. Stockholm University complex systems and help supporting a sustainable aim to produce and study materials with desirable
PARTICLE PHYSICS conducts unique research on the proteins that development. The research is carried out at individ- properties and functionalities stemming from under-
The research in particle physics and astronomy at constitute a large part of the cell membranes. Many ual departments, at centres and in major interdis- standing of atomistic details and control of molec-
Stockholm University covers a wide area: from the central processes in the cell are dependent on mem- ciplinary research programmes. The University's ular, mesoscopic and macroscopic structures. The
smallest building blocks of the universe to the forma- brane proteins, and a majority of future pharma- Bolin Centre is an important forum for climate results are important for sustainable systems and re-
tion and evolution of galaxies over billions of years. ceutical drugs are expected to target these proteins. science organized in collaboration with SMHI and duced energy use, as well as for the environment and
How do particles get their mass, and will the Higgs Cellular processes are closely tied to the function of KTH. The climate development and climate-related health. Hybrid materials derived from earth-abun-
boson provide the final answer? Why is there more membranes to regulate what substances pass in and processes in the Arctic comprise some of the Bolin dant raw materials and biomass or high-perfor-
matter than antimatter in the universe-is this relat- out of the cell. Membrane proteins, which control Centre's research areas. At the Baltic Sea Centre, the mance polymers are central for applications in e.g.
ed to hypothetical axions or the processes that are these processes, are thus the focus of many research research ranges from individual bays to the open sea chemical processes, the built environment, and for
responsible for neutrinos mass? What happens when groups, both in Sweden and internationally. What as well as from large-scale modelling to practical ac- climate action including water and air purification.
compact stars-such as neutron stars and black makes the research at Stockholm University unique tions. Central research questions are the importance Porous materials are studied for applications in,
holes-merge, and how are the gravitational waves is its breadth. There are more than twenty research of coasts for the climate and what role biodiversity for example, gas separation and (electro)catalysis
that are generated by this process linked to other groups that use both experimental and theoretical plays in the absorption and emission of greenhouse for mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions and the
12 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026
development of enabling technologies for hydrogen
production and storage. Nanocellulose, lignin nan-
oparticles, and other nanomaterials are tailor-made
for new and improved functions in adsorption,
catalytic, mechanical, heat-insulating, magnetic and
optical applications. Understanding the structure of
a material is crucial in order to explain its properties
and to optimize it for specific applications. Electron
microscopy, diffraction, NMR spectroscopy and
scattering studies using synchrotron light or neu-
trons are being developed and used for structural
characterization. In addition, theoretical tools are
being used to explore the structure-property-func-
tion correlation of materials.
MATHEMATICAL THEORY DEVELOPMENT &
MODELLING
Mathematical structures are a cornerstone of many
scientific theories. In physics, mathematical theories
and models are absolutely central tools, in addition,
new important mathematics has developed from ideas
originating from physics. In astronomy, chemistry and
Earth science, mathematical modelling is becoming
more and more important, and in some areas, such as
quantum chemistry and meteorology, it is a funda-
mental tool. A new and important development is that
mathematical modelling is becoming increasingly im-
portant in life science and in the social sciences. There
is reason to believe that mathematical theories will
become even more important than today in both the
natural sciences and in other fields. This means that
mathematical tools will need to be developed in col-
laboration with other researchers to a greater extent.
This includes numerical aspects and needs identified
when analysing new types of high-dimensional data.
Such cross-fertalization means that new advanced
mathematics, and mathematical intuition, will become
useful in other scientific areas. In turn, questions in
these areas will inspire mathematicians to formulate,
and gain insight into, new mathematical concepts and
structures. Stockholm University has strong theoret-
ical research in many scientific disciplines, and the
links between these disciplines and mathematics are
becoming more important with time.
Students and visitors use the study spaces in the
Bergdahl room at the Stockholm University Library. Here you
can read and study in peace and quiet (quiet zone).
Photo: Lena Katarina Johansson
14 Strategies for Stockholm University 2023-2026
Stockholm University 106 91 Stockholm Sweden
Tel +46-8-16 20 00 www.su.se