TUM A genda 2030
Innovation through
talent, excellence
and responsibility
Imprint
Publisher
Prof. Dr. Thomas F. Hofmann
President of the Technical University of Munich
Arcisstrasse 21
80333 Munich, Germany
Responsible for concept and editing
Dr. phil. Clarissa Ruge
Creative Director Image
Arcisstrassse 21
80333 Munich, Germany
+49 89 289 25769
ruge@zv.tum.de
www.tum.de/en
Text 10 5
LOOPING GROUP
Prannerstrasse 11
80333 Munich, Germany
Translation and Proofreading
BAKER & COMPANY
Bergsonstrasse 65
81245 Munich, Germany
Design 1 6
ediundsepp Gestaltungsgesellschaft mbH
Domagkstrasse 1
80807 Munich, Germany
Printing 7
Kriechbaumer Druck GmbH & Co. KG 9
Ehrenbreitsteiner Strasse 28 12
80993 Munich, Germany
Paper
Printed on premium recycled paper made from
100 % FSC-certified recycled fibers. TUM in Bavaria
Circulation
2,500 copies 1 TUM Campus Munic h
2 TUM Campus Garching
Year of publication 3 TUM Campus Freising-Weihenstephan
2021 4 TUM Campus Straubing for
Biotechnology and Sustainability
Images 5 Geodetic Observatory, Wettzell
Page 1: Matthias Kestel 6 Science & Study Center, Raitenhaslach
Page 3: Thomas Dashuber Fotografie 7 Student Research Center,
Page 4: Astrid Eckert / TUM Berchtesgadener Land
Page 6: Magdalena Jooss 8 Limnological Research Station, Iffeldorf
Page 7: Astrid Eckert / TUM 9 Hydraulic Engineering and Water Economy
Page 9: ProLehre Medienproduktion Research Institute, Obernach
Page 11: Andreas Heddergott / TUM (pictures 1, (Oskar-von-Miller Institute)
2 from left); TUM Asia; Kurt Fuchs; ProLehre 10 TUM Campus Heilbronn
Medienproduktion; Andreas Heddergott / TUM; 11 Geriatronics Research Center,
MATT STARK photography; Tom Freudenberg Garmisch-Partenkirchen
Page 13: Andreas Heddergott / TUM 12 Environmental Research Station
Page 14: João M. Rosa / AmazonFACE Schneefernerhaus
Funded by the Federal Ministry of Sponsored by
Education and Research (BMBF) and
the Free State of Bavaria under the
Excellence Strategy of the Federal
Government and the Länder Bavarian State Ministry of
Science and the Arts
By pursuing its ambitious TUM AGENDA 2030, the
Technical University of Munich (TUM) is transforming
research, innovation and education while creating a
progressive university family that embraces change and
works to make the world a better place. This vision
will make TUM a global hub of knowledge, create incom­
pa rable learning experiences, and focus on responsible
innovations that meet the needs of society and nature.
With our TUM Agenda 2030, we are ideally positioned to face
the future. We have an unconventional mindset free from
the constraints of individual disciplines and schools of thought,
we are entrepreneurial in spirit, and we are focused on
socially responsible innovation.
" People are at the heart of of life, and the astounding diversity of the natural world.
And we search for groundbreaking solutions to the greatest
our aspirations. Following our
challenges facing our society.
reform concept of‚ 'human-
Being successful in this new decade will require an open
centered engineering', we are culture of innovation. We are therefore making TUM a central
player in an innovation ecosystem made up of research
introducing the scientific
institutes, enterprises, technology companies, incubators
and technical excellence of and start ups. Our inquisitive, open-minded students play
an active role in this work as a valued source of ideas.
TUM into the world of ideas
With deep roots in our native Bavaria, we achieve academic
discussed in modern society."
excellence and gain our innovative power by recognizing
the individual talents, wide-ranging experience and diversity
PROF. THOMAS F. HOFMANN
of the people in our TUM family. They are the key to our
mission for the future. It is a future I am looking forward to.
With my best regards,
In our pursuit of responsible innovations that benefit society,
we are expanding the concept of engineering, opening it up to
the humanities and social sciences by incorporating society's
values, needs and expectations into developing technologies.
We are shifting from introverted silo mentalities to open,
collaborative teams. We draw on the intelligence of the entire Prof. Thomas F. Hofmann,
TUM family and mobilize our global partners. And we strive President of TUM
to supercharge our most powerful driver of innovation: our
people!
At TUM, a university with a profile of expertise unmatched
anywhere in Europe, we consider ourselves to be obligated
by the fundamental goal of the United Nations. We strive to
make a significant contribution to preserving health, treating
illnesses, creating a sustainable world, and shaping a
successful digital transformation. To this end, we research
the very fundamentals of our existence, the molecular codes
Technical University of Munich | 3
TUM Global
EuroTech Alliance
1 Danmarks Tekniske Universitet
2 Technische Universiteit Eindhoven
3 École Polytechnique Fédérale de
Lausanne
4 École Polytechnique
5 Technion -
Israel Institute of Technology
6 Technical University of Munich
Flagship partners
International locations and
strategic initiative s
www.international.tum.de/en
San Francisco
Collaborations
150+
partner universities
worldwide São
Paulo
350+
Erasmus partnerships
across Europe
Partner universities
< 10 <30 >30
Milestones
1868 1893 1928 1956
King Ludwig II of Bavaria founds Graduate Rudolf Diesel develops Hans Fischer synthesizes blood's The Programmgesteuerte
the Polytechnische Schule the engine that will come to bear red colorant, hemin, in a test Elektronische Rechenanlage
München as a catalyst of his name, based on an idea he tube (Nobel Prize, 1930). München (PERM) is developed.
industrialization. had as a student. It is the fastest computer in the
world at the time.
Imperial
College
London
Brussels:
EuroTech
Universities
4 6
Beijing
Shenzhen: Tsinghua
Mumbai University
Ghana: Singapore: TUM Asia
KNUST
University of Queensland
As part of our TUM.Africa Initiative,
we are forging long-term partner-
ships in the key areas of teaching,
research and entrepreneurship on
the African continent.
1985 2000 2014 2018
Robert Huber unlocks the secrets The world's first minimally Researchers map the human The source of an extragalactic
of photosynthesis (Nobel Prize, invasive heart valve operation is proteome. neutrino is identified for the
1988). performed. first time.
What Drives Us
Sustainable innovations for humanity, society and nature
Fishbowl discussion between postdocs and professors in the ceremonial hall at Raitenhaslach Abbey near Burghausen
4 | Technical University of Munich
TUM AGENDA 2030:
Sustained dynamic of
regeneration
Five guiding principles represent the networking of all academic excellence for our mission of responsible
disciplines and the transformation of TUM from a research and innovation, while also providing a third
subject­focused institution to a University of Excellence dimension to our entrepreneurial spirit.
based on system integration.
3. We are instigating a paradigm shift in teaching. U nder the
leadership of the new TUM Center for Study and Teaching,
1. We are creating an internal structure that promotes
we are accelerating the transition from one-size-fits-all
innovation. We are transforming our internal structure from
education towards a more personalized mix-and-match
15 distinct faculties to an academically dynamized matrix
range of studies. We tailor our programs of study to the
organization that promotes innovation. At the core of this
competence profiles required in professional careers
new vision are seven schools that cover the entire port-
(TUM Professional Profiles) and use innovative education
folio of major scientific domains. Situated at the interfaces
technologies (TUM EdTech Center) to convey new knowledge
between these schools, Integrative Research Institutes
to students ever more effectively.
connect the methods, tools and knowledge of different
disciplines and address system-wide challenges and 4. We are connecting people across disciplinary, institutional
far-reaching future-focused issues with transdisciplinary and generational boundaries. We supercharge the most
approaches to research and teaching. powerful driver of innovation - people! We strive to connect
the youthful enthusiasm of school pupils and our interna-
We are fostering collective creativity. Establishing the TUM
tional student body's thirst for knowledge with the specialist
Institute for Advanced Study (TUM-IAS) has created a
talents, experience and open networks of our teaching
gateway for TUM to the world of interdisciplinary cutting-
staff and contributors - across disciplinary and cultural
edge research. Through the Munich Data Science Institute
boundaries. We are turning TUM into a creative space
and the Munich Design Institute, we are establishing data
that enables bright minds from the worlds of science, busi-
sciences, design thinking and design aspects as key
ness, politics and society to gather and pool their talents,
integrative actors in our innovative research and teaching
exchange ideas, inspire one another, challenge one another,
agenda. TUM Innovation Networks and their transdisci-
upskill and collaborate in promising fields of innovation,
plinary teams draw on the university's collective creativity
with the common goal of shaping the world of tomorrow.
to explore high-risk yet promising areas of innovation
and help them to reach critical mass.
2. We are integrating the humanities and social sciences.
We are significantly expanding our portfolio of technically-
oriented humanities and social sciences in the new
TUM School of Social Sciences and Technology. We are
enabling domains to build their own profiles and, in
keeping with our guiding principle of human-centered
engineering, are providing them with sufficient integrative
valency and educational capacity to benefit the natural,
engineering, life and economic sciences as well as the field
www.exzellenz.tum.de/en
of medicine. This lays the foundations and delivers the
Technical University of Munich | 5
University of Excellence:
Cutting-edge research
centers
In 2019, TUM was awarded the title of "University of technologies. Its interdisciplinary research ranges from
Excellence" for the third time in succession. We are analyzing entanglement in many-body systems to developing
the only technical university to achieve this feat since the a new generation of quantum-based devices and sensors -
contest's introduction by German federal and state such as scalable quantum computers, sensors for precise
governments in 2006. measurements, secure communication systems for everyday
use, nanosensors for living cells, and novel quantum
TUM works with its partners to examine the highly relevant materials.
scientific issues of our time through research of the highest
ORIGINS. The evolution of the universe is one of the greatest
international standards in its Clusters of Excellence. These
mysteries humankind has faced. Origins is a Cluster of
clusters enhance TUM's global profile as one of Europe's best
Excellence dedicated to unraveling it. It connects scientists
universities and a leading technical university.
and researchers from the fields of astrophysics, astrobiology,
e-conversion. This Cluster of Excellence researches stable, biophysics and particle physics to examine the fundamental
efficient, sustainable power supplies and networks existing phenomena of planet formation and the emergence of the first
research expertise in nanoscience and energy science in the prebiotic molecules.
Munich region. It focuses on ultra-fast energy conversion
SyNergy. The Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology
processes in different technologies - from photovoltaics to
research es how neurological diseases like multiple sclerosis
(photo)electrocatalysis to battery technology. It generates
and Alzheimer's develop. Due to the highly complex nature
insights that make it possible to design and synthesize energy
of the human nervous system, numerous processes can
materials with atomic precision.
influence the emergence of neurodegenerative diseases. This
MCQST. The Munich Center for Quantum Science and Tech- Cluster of Excellence follows an interdisciplinary approach
nology combines research from the fields of physics, drawing on systems biology, bioinformatics, systems neurosci-
mathematics, informatics, material science, chemistry and ence and clinical neurology.
cosmology with the aim of gaining a profound understanding
of quantum-mechanical phenomena and thus advancing the
www.exzellenz.tum.de/en
fundamental components, materials and concepts of quantum
Prof. Elisa Resconi and her team observe neutrinos that reach
Earth from outer space. She is part of the successful ORIGINS
Cluster of Excellence.
6 | Technical University of Munich
The Women of TUM network promotes international
exchange between women in business and science, such
as at this event held in 2016.
A global hub of knowledge:
Lifelong learning
In an age of social change, we are turning TUM into a sciences, natural sciences, life sciences and social sciences,
lifelong education partner supporting professionals. as well as the field of medicine - supported by the latest
We are creating a global hub of knowledge to which not learning methods and innovative (often digital) formats.
only alumni but also other specialists from the fields
What is more, TUM IL3 also organizes internal professional
of business, politics and society can return as "adult
development opportunities for our staff. This ranges from
learners" to upskill through educational opportunities
helping all our staff to develop interdisciplinary skills and pro-
rooted in science.
moting our professors' teaching and leadership skills to offering
a training program for our non-professorial teaching staff.
The world is in a state of flux - with enormous consequences
for the world of work and the requirements each of us will As an entrepreneurially minded and socially responsible
have to meet in future. We are therefore initiating a fundamental university, we perceive TUM IL3 as a key lever with which to
transformation in teaching, moving towards lifelong, con- set a course for the future.
tinuous learning. We help professionals to refresh their skills
profiles, expand them through modular learning, and over-
come the future challenges posed by a changing labor market
in a responsible and effective manner.
TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning
Our courses focus on interdisciplinary fields, such as manage- The aim of the TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning is to
promote advanced education rooted in science in fields
ment and leadership, and build on the many years of experi-
such as management and leadership for international
ence of our teaching staff at the TUM School of Management. professionals from the worlds of science, business and
However, rather than simply copying typical business schools, society. By adopting innovative education formats, the
TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning equips internal and
in the TUM Institute for LifeLong Learning (TUM IL3) we
external leaders with the skills they need to overcome
are creating a novel institution fit to meet future demands. current and future social challenges in a responsible and
Our customized range of studies uniquely integrates state- of- effective manner.
www.tum.de/en/lifelong-learning/
the-art skills from our extensive portfolio of engineering
Technical University of Munich | 7
Nobel Prizes awarded to
researchers and alumni German Future Prizes
awarded to researchers and
alumni
Humboldt Professorships
650 9,000 Around
Over
spin-off companies since
publications per year
1990
Over
programs of study 23
patents filed
8,904
Leibniz Prizes
graduates in examination
year 2019/20
83,000
Around
members in our Alumni Network
36 %
female students
34 %
international students
ERC grants
54th (as of April 2021)
Academic Ranking of World
Universities ("Shanghai Ranking")
1,115
doctorates conferred at TUM
in examination year 2019/20
8 | Technical University of Munich Figures are up to date as of 2020.
sezirP
sgniknaR
sthgisnI
elpoeP
Our Successes
Facts and figures
1 50th
German Startup Monitor QS World University Ranking
29th in Engineering
31st in Natural Sciences
Total budget incl. Klinikum:
€ 1.77 billion
over
12th
Global University Employability
Ranking (Times Higher Education)
invention disclosures
submitted
Professorships 41st
1920/21 53 Times Higher Education
World University Ranking
1970/71 177
2020/21 612
professorships
Students
1920/21 4,224
1970/71 9,643
2020/21 45,356
students
We Are Shaping the
Future with an
Integrative Systems
Approach
From a faculty­based system to a modern matrix organization
We are "updating" the DNA of the Technical University of • TUM School of Computation, Information and Technology
Munich, 150 years after its foundation. The matrix orga­ • TUM School of Engineering and Design
nization we will establish will comprise seven schools and • TUM School of Natural Sciences
integrative research centers, explicitly targeting trans­ • TUM School of Life Sciences
disciplinary innovations in teaching and research. • TUM School of Medicine and Health
• TUM School of Management
Narrow, limited faculty-specific teaching and research programs • TUM School of Social Sciences and Technology
are no longer able to keep pace with the need to develop
systemic skills to compete in future. Efficiently creating system- Situated at the interfaces between these schools Integrative
integrative cooperative alliances is a decisive success factor Research Institutes (IRI) will address system-wide challenges
when it comes to exploring as yet uncharted, interdisciplinary and wide-ranging, future-focused issues through transdiscipli-
areas of science. For this reason, we are transforming our nary approaches to research and teaching. By making this
organizational structure from the current 15 faculties, which change, we are exploring new methods to focus intellectual
have grown gradually over time, to a matrix structure that abilities in highly promising fields of innovation, in the hope
will promote innovation. that cross-school, mission-driven collaboration will yield a visi-
ble impact in international competition. Examples include
We are creating seven schools with departments covering the
biomedical engineering, robotics and machine intelligence,
entire portfolio of major scientific domains, which will serve
energy systems, process engineering, biotechnology and
to form an identity and provide calibration within international
sustainability.
scientific communities. These schools are:
This goal is also served by the TUM Innovation Networks.
This new format of collaborative research brings together
academic talent from different disciplines more efficiently than
ever before through a bottom-up approach, thereby
Technical University of Munich | 9
encouraging them to adopt visionary research approaches,
explore genuinely uncharted scientific territory and test out
Astronautics research will now
its potential for development - before anyone else has dared
also take place on the TUM Campus
to do the same. Taufkirchen/Ottobrunn
By adopting the new matrix structure, TUM is also responding
to the need to modernize our teaching. It is a historic reform:
we are moving away from one-size-fits-all education towards
more personalized, feedback-based mix-and-match programs
of study with the flexibility to meet the evolving demands of
global job markets (TUM Professional Profiles) and do justice
to our students' talents and motivations. Supported by
digital teaching and examination formats (hybrid learning), this
approach will ensure issues are addressed in detail while
identifying interdisciplinary applications, continuously forge
connections to the humanities, social sciences and eco-
nomics, while remaining compatible with lifelong learning and
development. Munich Data Science Institute (MDSI)
The breathtaking progress in data generation, data utiliza-
Through this overall strategy, we will replace introverted silo tion and computing architecture have triggered a para-
mentalities with collaborative networks in research, teaching digm shift in the world of research. Machine learning and
artificial intelligence (AI) have brought about technologi-
and innovation, bringing together the combined intelligence of
cal innovations and will revolutionize our society in various
the entire TUM family and our global partners. dimensions. This is the focus of research at the MDSI.
www.mdsi.tum.de/en
TUM Schools
Computation, Information & Technology
Engineering & Design
Natural Sciences
Life Sciences
Medicine & Health
Management
Integrative
Social Sciences & Technology Research
Institutes
BioMedical Engineering Robotics & Machine Intelligence
Biotechnology & Sustainability Data Sciences
Energy & Process Engineering Technology Design Technology Design
10 | Technical University of Munich
TUM Science and Study Center Raitenhaslach TUM Asia Singapore
TUM Campus Straubing TUM Campus Downtown Munich
TUM Campus Heilbronn
TUM Campus Garching
Robotics & Machine Intelligence
TUM Campus Weihenstephan
Technical University of Munich | 11
Students working on develop-
ment of the Hyperloop.
We Foster
Entrepreneurial Talent
With 70 to 80 technology­based spin­off companies per year,
TUM is on course to become the European start­up champion
And the stage is set for even more start­ups in future: TUM sadors with a global sphere of influence, and connect with
is further strengthening its collaboration with partners our many collaboration partners, who significantly broaden
from the world of business and applying the results of our our reach.
basic and applied research in market­oriented innovation
www.tum.de/en/entrepreneurship
processes and technologies.
Following our conviction that integrating young founders in
an inspiring scientific environment is the most promising
way to ensure that technology-based start-ups have an
enduring impact on social change, we are striving to secure
Innovation catalysts
a leading position in Europe for our innovation ecosystem.
In addition, as part of the TUMentrepreneurship program, we
are working with the TUM Entrepreneurship Research TUM Entrepreneurship Center
Institute and our affiliated research institute UnternehmerTUM From the initial idea through to the growth phase, the
TUM Entrepreneurship Center offers extensive support
to provide enduring support for the establishment of growth-
and services to technology-oriented company founders.
focused and technology-based companies - from the This includes MakerSpace, a high-tech workshop equipped
ideation phase through to their foundation and successful for prototype construction and small-series production,
as well as office spaces and workstations in the
market positioning and into their growth phrase.
TUM Incubator.
In doing so, we have become Germany's leading higher
TUM Venture Labs
education institution for start-ups. Every year, we bring
What are the aims behind the new TUM Venture Labs?
about 70 to 80 tech start-ups to market. TUM start-ups To promote entrepreneurial spirit and entire families
attracted more than € 1 billion in investments in 2019. of start-ups in key technological fields - and thereby
position the Munich metropolitan region as the European
In conjunction with UnternehmerTUM and with the aim of start-up champion.
www.tum.de/en/venture-labs
becoming a European leader in the foundation of growth-
oriented technology start-ups, we have begun to surround
the university with a network of innovation centers and UnternehmerTUM
incubators. The TUM Venture Labs are aimed at developing A team of 240 staff supports young founders. They support
start-ups from the initial idea through to the IPO, offering
deep tech start up families around selected technological
their expertise on company setup, market entry and financ-
focal points. They provide the necessary development envi- ing. UnternehmerTUM has already produced many
ronment - from the technical and social infrastructure to successful start-ups.
www.unternehmertum.de/en
entrepreneurship coaching and support from networks of
businesses and investors.
Munich Urban Colab
This has given rise to an entrepreneurial mindset that attracts
Munich's Schwabing district is home to TUM's new creative
students interested in founding their own company to TUM quarter. Spread across five stories and 11,000 square
and actively supports them, from the initial idea to the meters, it offers space for workshops, fitness studios,
winter gardens and, above all, more than 250 start-ups.
foundation and through to market launch. To facilitate this,
www.unternehmertum.de/en/about/munich-urban-colab
we network with our alumni and emeriti, who act as ambas-
12 | Technical University of Munich
TUM Entrepreneurship Center
From the initial idea through to the growth phase, the
TUM Entrepreneurship Center offers extensive support
and services to technology-oriented company founders.
This includes MakerSpace, a high-tech workshop equipped
for prototype construction and small-series production,
as well as office spaces and workstations in the
TUM Incubator.
TUM Venture Labs
What are the aims behind the new TUM Venture Labs?
To promote entrepreneurial spirit and entire families
of start-ups in key technological fields - and thereby
position the Munich metropolitan region as the European
start-up champion.
www.tum.de/en/venture-labs
UnternehmerTUM
A team of 240 staff supports young founders. They support
start-ups from the initial idea through to the IPO, offering
their expertise on company setup, market entry and financ-
ing. UnternehmerTUM has already produced many
successful start-ups.
www.unternehmertum.de/en
Munich Urban Colab
Munich's Schwabing district is home to TUM's new creative
quarter. Spread across five stories and 11,000 square
meters, it offers space for workshops, fitness studios,
winter gardens and, above all, more than 250 start-ups.
www.unternehmertum.de/en/about/munich-urban-colab
Technical University of Munich | 13
A Fresh Perspective -
and Sustainable Action!
Sustainability and organizational development in research,
teaching and innovation
AmazonFACE
This international project researches the impacts of climate
change in the rainforest. FACE stands for "Free Air CO₂
Enrichment", the term given to a technical experimental
set-up that generates a defined concentration of carbon
dioxide outdoors.
www.lsai.wzw.tum.de/en
View into the Future (BLIZ)
How will ecosystem services and biodiversity develop in
Bavaria? The interdisciplinary collaborative project
BLIZ develops new scenarios for sustainable ecosystem
management in Bavaria. Its aim is to develop specific
guidelines and assess possible uncertainties.
www.bayklif-bliz.de
TUM Straubing Campus for Biotechnology and
Sustainability (TUMCS)
Developing sustainable technologies and guiding commer-
cial implementation - two major topics brought together by
the TUM Straubing Campus, which acts as an Integrative
Research Institute of the Technical University of Munich in
cooperation with the Weihenstephan-Triesdorf University
of Applied Sciences. This requires specialists in natural and
technical sciences, chemical scientists, biotechnologists
and engineers who also have a broad understanding of eco-
nomic and social coherences, as well as economists who
speak engineers' language.
In future, we want to gauge ourselves more closely against - by making energy savings, increasing resource efficiency,
www.cs.tum.de/?lang=en
what we do to promote sustainability in our society - at and reducing greenhouse gas emissions and environmental
economic, ecological and social levels. Of course, we will pollution as far as possible. These very considerations were
expand our research and teaching activities in modern among those incorporated into the concept for TUM's Werner Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology
(WSSB)
agricultural and plant sciences, bioeconomics and the fields Friedrich N. Schwarz Research Station, which allows us to
Carbon fiber components are extremely lightweight and
of energy, mobility and climate research, searching for explore the Alpine ecosystem and trial new forms of
robust. Until now, producing these components has
innovative solutions to promote the sustainable development scientific teaching. Given its significance, we have anchored required crude oil. In the Green Carbon project, the Werner
of our planet. However, we also aim to make sustainability a the topic of sustainability at the heart of our university in Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology at TUM
collaborates with partner businesses to produce the
more integral element of our own organizational and campus the form of the TUM Sustainability Office. We hope that the
material sustainably from algae and yeasts.
development. Future generations of students will favor TUM Sustainability Taskforce will help us to reflect self-
www.department.ch.tum.de/en/wssb
studying and working at a university that leads by example critically on our actions, highlight where action is needed,
14 | Technical University of Munich
A view of the central meteorological tower in one of the
parcels of rainforest land used by the AmazonFACE
research project.
Examples of sustain-
able TUM projects
AmazonFACE
This international project researches the impacts of climate
change in the rainforest. FACE stands for "Free Air CO₂
Enrichment", the term given to a technical experimental
set-up that generates a defined concentration of carbon
dioxide outdoors.
www.lsai.wzw.tum.de/en
View into the Future (BLIZ)
How will ecosystem services and biodiversity develop in
Bavaria? The interdisciplinary collaborative project
BLIZ develops new scenarios for sustainable ecosystem
management in Bavaria. Its aim is to develop specific
guidelines and assess possible uncertainties.
www.bayklif-bliz.de
TUM Straubing Campus for Biotechnology and
Sustainability (TUMCS)
Developing sustainable technologies and guiding commer-
cial implementation - two major topics brought together by
the TUM Straubing Campus, which acts as an Integrative
Research Institute of the Technical University of Munich in
cooperation with the Weihenstephan-Triesdorf University
of Applied Sciences. This requires specialists in natural and
technical sciences, chemical scientists, biotechnologists
and engineers who also have a broad understanding of eco-
nomic and social coherences, as well as economists who
speak engineers' language.
and implement targeted projects and effective measures so
www.cs.tum.de/?lang=en
that TUM develops more sustainably - across all levels:
teaching, research, innovation, administration and, of course,
the development of our locations. In doing so, we aim to Werner Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology
(WSSB)
play our part in creating not only a sustainable society but
Carbon fiber components are extremely lightweight and
also a more resilient economy, an issue that has increasingly
robust. Until now, producing these components has
come to light in the current global crisis. required crude oil. In the Green Carbon project, the Werner
Siemens-Chair of Synthetic Biotechnology at TUM
collaborates with partner businesses to produce the
material sustainably from algae and yeasts.
www.tum.de/sustainability www.department.ch.tum.de/en/wssb
Technical University of Munich | 15
Our Mission
We are committed to making sustainable, innovative progress
for the benefit of humankind, nature and society
Moving forward with
inquisitive minds
Change remains our constant. We learn from our
Teams, not silos
experiences and scrutinize the consequences of
our actions. We are geared to addressing new challen-
ges and seizing opportunities to promote the We are reorganizing our internal structure to improve
sustainable development of scholarship, ecology, the our efficacy, moving from a faculty-based system
economy, health, and social relationships - in turn to a matrix organization that promotes innovation,
generating joy, motivation and performance power that comprising schools, departments and interdisci-
drives us forward. plinary research centers. In doing so, we aim to convert
strategic development potential into innovations with
greater efficiency, accelerate the foundation of spin-
offs, and improve our operational agility to ensure
we are fit to face the future.
A focus on people
In an age of technological change, we must reflect on
the consequences of our actions and research with
due regard to all economic, ecological, social, political, A culture of
and ethical implications. We pursue innovations not
l ifelong l earning
for the sake of technological progress but for the good
of humankind and to preserve a livable environment.
The principle of human-centered engineering pervades Our teaching focuses on the competence profiles
our research, innovation and teaching. required in the employment markets of the future.
We are constantly developing our teaching and training
concepts. As a lifelong learning partner, we seek to
ensure the continued professional success of our own
staff, our alumnae and alumni, plus specialists from
the fields of business, politics and society, by offering
continuous training and education firmly rooted in
science.
Our mission statement
You can find more information about our vision,
mission, core values and guiding principles at:
www.tum.de/mission-statement