For students who are not citizens/permanent residents of the U.S.
Texas Tech fosters an environment of support and engagement and encourages original
 critical and creative thinking in a personalized setting. Along the way, you'll have
 access to state-of-the-art facilities and equipment, an internationally renowned faculty,
 comprehensive professional and career development activities, and numerous internship
 and other opportunities to enhance your experience as a graduate student at Texas
 Tech University.
Recommended Deadlines for International Students
Recommended deadlines for international students are as follows: January 15 for Fall and Summer semesters June 15 for Spring semesters
January 15 for Fall and Summer semesters
June 15 for Spring semesters
International applicants may apply after these preferred deadlines. However, the Office
 of Graduate Admissions cannot guarantee there will be sufficient time for late applications
 to be evaluated and make any necessary visa/travel arrangements if admitted.
Certain departments have more specific and strict deadlines for applications to be
 considered for admission and funding. We recommend that you contact the department
 that houses your intended program and confirm the deadline to ensure you submit your
 application on time.
Submitting incorrect information on your application or failing to include important
 details can delay the admissions process.
$75 initial application fee (non-refundable) $100 after January 15 for Summer applications $100 after April 15 for Fall applications $100 after September 15 for Spring applications
$100 after January 15 for Summer applications
$100 after April 15 for Fall applications
$100 after September 15 for Spring applications
$25 for each subsequent application for the same term (non-refundable)
The fee will be paid online with a credit card as part of the application process.
Full-time and at least half-time employees (staff or faculty) of TTU/TTUHSC may qualify
 for an application fee waiver. Please complete this form and email it to graduate.admissions@ttu.edu before submitting your application.
Transcripts & Required Documents
All applicants must provide transcripts for each degree-awarding post-secondary college
 or university attended. Transcripts must contain a record of all courses taken and all grades received - This
 includes mark sheets, examination results, etc. All applicants must have earned a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited post-secondary
 institution in the United States or its equivalent from a foreign institution. Non-US
 institutions must be recognized by their government/government ministry or department
 to award undergraduate and/or post-graduate degrees. For more specified information on required transcripts, see the "Country-Specific
 Document Information" section below.
Transcripts must contain a record of all courses taken and all grades received - This
 includes mark sheets, examination results, etc.
All applicants must have earned a bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited post-secondary
 institution in the United States or its equivalent from a foreign institution. Non-US
 institutions must be recognized by their government/government ministry or department
 to award undergraduate and/or post-graduate degrees.
For more specified information on required transcripts, see the "Country-Specific
 Document Information" section below.
If the transcripts are NOT provided in English or the institution does NOT issue transcripts
 in English, an official word for word English translation of all transcripts and/or
 all mark sheets is required . The Office of Graduate Admissions will not accept a public notary certification. All English translations must be done by the issuing institution, government certified
 translator, or an ATA certified translator. For a list of translation companies we accept, visit the Translation Information page on our FAQ site . A list of ATA-certified translators is available online at www.atanet.org/onlinedirectories .
All English translations must be done by the issuing institution, government certified
 translator, or an ATA certified translator. For a list of translation companies we accept, visit the Translation Information page on our FAQ site . A list of ATA-certified translators is available online at www.atanet.org/onlinedirectories .
For a list of translation companies we accept, visit the Translation Information page on our FAQ site .
A list of ATA-certified translators is available online at www.atanet.org/onlinedirectories .
All documents submitted with the application are unofficial. If admitted, the applicant will be required to submit official transcripts, diplomas/degree
 certificates, English translations, and test scores by the 12th class day of the term
 to which the applicant is admitted. If official documents are not submitted 12 days
 after the first day of class, an admissions hold will be placed on the admitted students’
 academic record preventing future registration. What is the difference between offical and unnofficial documents? "Official" academic documents (transcripts and diplomas) reflect the final graduation status
 and are sent directly to Texas Tech University Graduate Admissions from the issuing
 institution. "Unofficial" academic documents (transcripts and diplomas) include the following: Transcripts that have been opened by the student. Transcripts printed from an institution’s student portal. Transcripts that do not yet reflect graduation status. Any document uploaded as part of the application process.
Transcripts that have been opened by the student.
Transcripts printed from an institution’s student portal.
Transcripts that do not yet reflect graduation status.
Any document uploaded as part of the application process.
All international applicants must be in good academic standing at any school they
 are currently attending. All international applicants must have been in good standing
 in all schools they previously attended at their final matriculation. If the degree is not complete when the application is made, six semesters or three
 years of course work are required.
Academic credentials from India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan
Academic credentials from Nigeria
Academic credentials from China
Academic credentials from Iran
Official Proof of English Proficiency
All international applicants must provide proof of English proficiency before their
 applications can be considered for admission. Only your most recent measure of English
 proficiency is considered for admission purposes. This test is waived only for graduates
 of U.S. universities or universities in English proficiency-exempt countries . Applicants who are in good standing for at least two consecutive years or completed
 a degree at a college or university in the U.S. or in an English proficiency-exempt
 country, are also exempt from the English proficiency requirement.
Applicants may submit one of the following English proficiency measures:
Duolingo English Test (Online examination) - The minimum required Duolingo score is 100. There is no institutional code for Duolingo,
 but applicants will need to select "Texas Tech Graduate School" as the institution
 to send scores to. Duolingo scores are reported within 48 hours and are valid for
 two years. Coupon codes for the DET may be available. Email graduate.admissions@ttu.edu for for more information.
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) – We accept the TOEFL iBT test or the TOEFL Essentials test. The minimum
 TOEFL iBT score required is 79. The minimum TOEFL Essentials score required is 8.5.
 The TOEFL score must be received directly from the Educational Testing Service. Texas
 Tech University's institutional code is 6827. TOEFL scores are valid for only two
 years.
International English Language Testing Service (IELTS) – The minimum IELTS required score is an overall band score of 6.5 on the
 Academic version. IELTS General Training results are not acceptable. There is no IELTS
 institution code for Texas Tech University. IELTS scores are valid for only two years.
Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic) – The minimum required PTE Academic score is 60. PTE General and PTE
 Young Learners results are not acceptable. There is no PTE Academic institution code
 for Texas Tech University. PTE Academic scores are valid for only two years.
Cambridge C2 Proficiency Test (Cambridge CPE) – The minimum required Cambridge CPE grade is a score of 180 or above 
 There is no institutional code for the Cambridge CPE. The Cambridge CPE is valid for
 life.
Cambridge C1 Advanced Proficiency Test (Cambridge CAE) – The minimum required Cambridge CAE grade is a score of 175 or above.
 There is no institutional code for the Cambridge CAE. The Cambridge CAE is valid for
 life.
ELS Level 112 (English Language Services-Centers for Intensive English) - Must complete level 112
 of the ELS Intensive English program. Must provide both the Transcript and Certificate
 of Completion when providing English proficiency proof.
Proof of Financial Support (Optional)
Applicants may provide proof of financial support as part of their application materials,
 or they may provide proof upon learning of their admission decision. This document
 is not necessary for application evaluation purposes. The Graduate School offers a
 limited number of fellowships. However, most financial assistance for new students
 is awarded by departments and not by the Graduate School. All correspondence regarding
 financial assistance should be conducted with the department to which the applicant
 is applying.
International Students seeking funding opportunities offered outside of Texas Tech
 may visit https://www.depts.ttu.edu/gradschool/financial/specialized_searches/international_student_specialized_searches.php for a list of resources. Information on General Fellowships provided by Texas Tech
 can be found at https://www.depts.ttu.edu/gradschool/financial/GeneralFellowships.php .
Residency Questionnaire Information for Tuition
International applicants do not complete the core residency questions as part of the
 admissions application because there are few visa categories eligible to establish
 a domicile for residency for tuition purposes. You may view a list of visas eligible
 to establish a domicile for residency for tuition purposes here . If your visa category allows you to establish a domicile for residency for tuition
 purposes, please submit the Residency Questionnaire to graduate.admissions@ttu.edu , in-person in Administration Building Room 328, or by mail.
Requests for reclassification must be submitted by the tenth class day (the second
 class day for summer terms) of the semester for the term for which you are trying
 to establish residency. This is because your residency status must be updated by the
 twelfth class day (the fourth class day for summer terms) in order for the change
 to take effect for that term, and we must have time to review each set of questions.
 Questionnaires received after that date will still be reviewed, but any updates to
 your residency status will not take effect until the following term.
Texas Tech Graduate School's chosen application system, in accordance with U.S. export
 control and economic sanctions laws and regulations, does not support users accessing
 online applications from Cuba, Iran, North Korea, or the region of Crimea without
 prior approval from the U.S. government. If you are a student who has created an application account and you cannot access
 your application due to a restricted IP error, please email graduate.admissions@ttu.edu for more information on how Texas Tech Graduate School can adjust the admissions
 process for you.
All submitted documents become the property of Texas Tech University and will not
 be returned. Questions? Comments? Contact us at graduate.admissions@ttu.edu .
If you have been studying at another institution in the United States in F-1 status
 and plan to enroll at Texas Tech University, you will need to complete an F-1 school
 transfer with the Graduate School Office. After receiving admission to Texas Tech,
 you will complete the Incoming F-1 Transfer Form with your previous school. The school
 you are currently attending must release your SEVIS record to Texas Tech. Only then
 can we issue a transfer I-20 to you. Students can access all necessary transfer-in
 forms on their application portal.
Students who will travel outside the United States for a short period of time before
 reporting to Texas Tech should discuss their plans with an International Student Counselor
 before making arrangements to leave the United States. If you do leave the country,
 you must re-enter using your Texas Tech I-20.
Students who have completed a degree program at another school and have been authorized
 for Optional Practical Training (OPT) will need to provide a copy of their EAD card
 showing maintenance of continuous F-1 status. Keep in mind that your OPT employment
 authorization will end as of the SEVIS transfer release date.
Once a student accepts their admission offer, they will receive an email with instructions
 on how to access the required documents needed for transferring and their I-20.
Questions about the transfer process should be directed to the following email: graduate.admissions.international@ttu.edu
For New Students Who Have Not Enrolled at TTU
Our office requires a formal letter of admission/acceptance letter from your new school
 as proof of your admission
Only one school at a time can access your F-1 SEVIS record.
On your SEVIS I-20 transfer/release date, your SEVIS record will be transferred to
 your new institution, and TTU will no longer have access.
The SEVIS transfer impacts your F-1 benefits, including employment eligibility, travel,
 and I-20 validity.
For Current TTU Students
If you are a current TTU student seeking SEVIS transfer information:
Visit International Student Services
See a list of Required Bachelor Degree Equivalents See a list of English proficiency-exempt countries .
If you have any other questions, please email us at graduate.admissions@ttu.edu .
From Here, It's Possible
Texas Tech has a place ready for you.
Address Administration Building 328, Texas Tech University, 2625 Memorial Circle, Lubbock,
 TX 79409-1030