Thrive
Strategic Plan 2025-2030
strategy.tcd.ie
2 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Our Strategic Plan is
unfolding in turbulent
and complex times.
Globally, there is much uncertainty about the future
and our planet remains in a precarious state. Against
this backdrop, we are witnessing a devaluing of higher
education, an obfuscation of truth, and a limiting of
voice and diversity.
Mission
Our mission has never been clearer: to provide-and fiercely
defend-a pluralist university education, enhanced by research,
rooted in academic freedom, enriched by diverse backgrounds
and perspectives, and marked by critical thinking.
Vision
And we do this to fulfil our vision to be a university that challenges
and serves society, making positive and lasting change through the
advancement of knowledge and discovery.
3 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Chairperson's
Paul Farrell
Chairperson of the Board
Foreword
It is with great pleasure and a deep sense of purpose that I welcome Over the next five years, we will focus our investment in strategic initiatives
Trinity College Dublin's Strategic Plan for 2025-2030. around people, infrastructure, and partnerships that will ensure Trinity
thrives well into the future. Whether through enhancing the student
This strategy is a roadmap for the coming five years with a clear mission experience, advancing cutting-edge research, championing sustainability,
-to provide, and fiercely defend, a high-quality pluralist university or promoting equality and access, this Strategic Plan is a collective
education, underpinned by research rooted in academic freedom, commitment to building a university fit for the challenges and opportunities
enriched by diverse backgrounds and perspectives, and marked by of the 21st century.
critical thinking.
On behalf of the Board of the University, I would like to express our deep
Trinity has stood for over four centuries as a beacon of learning, inquiry, gratitude to all who have contributed to this Strategic Plan. I look forward
and leadership. As we look ahead to a world marked by rapid change- to seeing it implemented, as we fulfil our vision to be a university that
environmental, technological, geopolitical-Trinity's role as a globally challenges and serves society, making positive and lasting change
connected and actively engaged university is more critical than ever. through the advancement of knowledge and discovery.
This strategy is designed to assist the University in facing the challenges
and opportunities ahead while ensuring that Trinity remains at the
forefront of academic innovation. It also aspires to assist the University
in deepening its engagement with the communities it serves locally,
nationally, and internationally.
The development of this plan has been shaped by wide consultation
and collaboration across our community including students, staff,
alumni, partners, and friends. It is grounded in a shared understanding
that universities must not only reflect society but help shape it, fostering
inclusive dialogue, rigorous scholarship, and bold, ethical leadership.
4 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Provost's
Dr Linda Doyle
Provost & President
Foreword
This is a time of profound challenge for the world and its universities. unique place that Trinity is and, for a centuries-old university, how we
can show leadership by using highly sustainable and responsible ways
Against this backdrop, we are privileged to be presenting our Strategic of inhabiting our campuses into the future. And our commitments also
Plan in a country that truly values academic freedom, freedom of reflect bold, new ideas and an eagerness to navigate a world shaped by
expression and freedom of association. These principles are at the rapid technological change.
heart of a healthy, democratic society-principles we must never take
for granted. These principles carry with them responsibilities and I believe passionately in the leadership role that a public university like
opportunities; the responsibility to challenge and serve society; the Trinity must play in the world. That leadership is needed now more than
opportunity to make positive and lasting change in the world. ever, and it underlines the need for the higher education sector in Ireland
to be funded in a truly sustainable way by government, with a step change
As I write this, the world is very far from thriving. Yet, by working together in funding for research. Trinity will continue to advocate strongly for this-
as a College community in support of our common purpose-and not only with our words but through actions that demonstrate clearly the
in partnership with others across the globe-we can play our part in positive impact we make.
challenging and serving society, helping to bring about the positive and
lasting change the world so urgently needs. This Strategic Plan has emerged from the work and efforts of so many
people. I would like to thank our Vice-Provost, Professor Orla Sheils, and
To realise this ambition, our Strategic Plan sets out clear commitments her dedicated team for their leadership in guiding an extensive consultation
that support our core purpose of teaching and learning, research and process. I am also deeply grateful to our Board members who played a
innovation. It reflects the spirit I so strongly associate with Trinity very active role in the development of this plan and to all the members
-a spirit of restless ambition, of never settling, and of always striving of our College community-staff, students, alumni, and partners-as well
to do better. It recognises that we are nothing without our people-our as our external stakeholders, whose insights have greatly enriched and
staff, our students, our partners in Ireland and around the world-and strengthened this plan.
that, by working together, we can achieve more, thrive collectively,
and make a meaningful difference. It speaks to the special and There is so much we can do and achieve together. Ar aghaidh linn le chéile!
5 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Purpose
The best way to stand up for higher education and to fulfil
our vision is to truly excel at our core purpose of advancing
knowledge and discovery. This means being at the forefront
of research and innovation and creating the best teaching
and learning environment for our students and staff.
People
It is our people, the collective weave of labour in this
university, and the people we partner with in Ireland and
across the globe, that enable us to achieve. It is incumbent
on us to create the conditions that allow our staff and
students to thrive and for our partners to work with us
in creative and impactful ways.
Place
Trinity is a unique place and place matters, whether that
is our physical campuses, our place on this planet and,
our place in the digital world. We can meaningfully support
our purpose and our people by ensuring we wisely and
creatively use the unique place that is Trinity.
6 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Climate action and biodiversity Outward looking - making Our community
as foundation our mark
As stated boldly in our Sustainability Trinity is an internationally engaged university Unusually, the legal name for our university
Strategy 2023-2030: that attracts staff and students from diverse comprises 25 words, and includes the
cultural and geographic backgrounds. We phrase 'the Provost, Fellows, Foundation
"We will be a university, a place, and collaborate with universities around the Scholars and other members of the Board'.
a community where climate change and world, we are a proud member of a European It demonstrates that, since the very beginning,
biodiversity loss are addressed in a holistic, university alliance and we participate in Trinity has seen itself as a team effort. Today,
integrated and health-focused way to a plethora of international networks and our community extends wider still and in this
protect and restore our planetary home global partnerships. These position us at the Strategic Plan we acknowledge its central role
for future generations." forefront of research and innovation and are in our future: all our students, all our staff, our
an important part of creating the best teaching Tutors and all those who support students, our
This ambition is foundational for our Strategic and learning environment for our students and Scholars and our Fellows, our Board members,
Plan. It influences our teaching and research, staff. Trinity's next global engagement strategy our 140,000 alumni across the globe, our staff
our drive to ensure students and staff feel part will take this further still. who have moved to other places and staff who
of a supportive healthy community, and our have retired, our wide range of partners-local,
motivation to make the best-and most careful At a national level we are outward looking, national and international-our volunteers,
-use of the space and the place we occupy. working proactively with partners across our philanthropic supporters and all who care
Ireland, engaging dynamically with so deeply about Trinity.
Adopting this mindset, and holding to our Government, and contributing to the social,
ambitions, means that sustainability is knitted cultural and economic life of the city of Dublin
into all the commitments in this Strategic Plan. and Ireland. Civic engagement, particularly
Already, over 400 researchers in this university at a local level, is also a distinguishing mark.
are working on climate and biodiversity issues. We appreciate our unique place at the heart
Even though this is a five-year Strategic Plan, of our capital city with the opportunities and
this mindset drives us to think deeply about our responsibilities that brings.
longer-term future.
7 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Purpose People Place
Our commitments 1 3 5
To continue to make
positive and lasting Intensifying our research and Enhancing student belonging Reimagining our physical
change on the world intensifying our innovation, and connection in an engaged estate through retrofit,
we commit to: from excellent to outstanding and healthy university refurbishment and sharing
practices
2 4 6
Designing for the future of Creating a thriving workplace Advancing our digital estate
teaching and lifelong learning, where we all work together to in support of a dynamic and
expanding partnerships and achieve our common purpose sustainable academic mission
creating new pathways
8 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
or research. Many of the plans underpinning as the Public Sector Equality and Human
Our values - putting our this growth have 20- and 30-year time horizons, Rights Duty, places a statutory obligation on
some of which are still in progress. While we public bodies, such as Trinity, to eliminate
words into action
remain open to our Schools bringing forward discrimination, promote equality of opportunity
new educational offerings and we remain open and protect the human rights of its members,
Values matter. They are key to the success to working with Government in addressing those to whom they provide services and staff
of this Strategic Plan. We centre our skills needs, we do not see further large growth when carrying out their daily work. As a values-
behavioural values around the importance in our traditional student body over the led organisation, we embrace our Public Sector
of belonging. We recognise that the university next five years. We see wider opportunities, Equality and Human Rights Duty obligations.
will thrive by each of us respecting and caring however, through flexible learning, lifelong Underpinned by data, consultation and feedback,
for one another. We know we can achieve learning and Continuous Professional we will use this as a lens to identify opportunities
much more through working together. We Development options as expressed in our and take action to embed a culture of equality,
know too that we must take responsibility for teaching and lifelong learning ambitions. inclusion and respect for human rights across
our actions and be accountable. We must, and our community and in how we work. Our Athena
will never stop, imagining. And through being Swan Charter commitments also underpin this.
nature positive we connect not just with the
environment but with our ambitions for Important responsibilities Our Strategic Plan is also influenced by the
a sustainable future. pledges made in our Higher Education Authority
We are committed to the Irish language as a (HEA) Performance Agreement 2024-2028.
central part of College life and recognise that In that agreement there are four performance
the Irish language is integral to the identity objectives: (1) Teaching & Learning focusing on
Student enrolment
of so many of our staff and students and is a Climate & Sustainable Development and Student
valued part of our culture and heritage. We Success, (2) Research & Innovation focusing on
Student enrolment has grown by almost a third are committed to our obligations under the Climate & Sustainable Development, (3) Access
over the past decade in Trinity. This reflects Official Languages Acts 2003 and (Amendment) & Participation focusing on Equality, Diversity,
the strong demand for higher education in 2021 and, as an inclusive institution, we are Inclusion & Belonging and (4) Engagement
Ireland and, as a public university, Trinity's committed to supporting and widening the focusing on Society. Our mission statement and
Schools have been innovative in providing new use of the Irish language across the university. our behavioural values address these objectives,
offerings to meet this need. This growth has as do elements of each of the six commitments
mainly been in "traditional" student places, i.e., Section 42 of the Irish Human Rights and at the core of our Strategic Plan.
those undertaking full-time continuous study Equality Commission Act 2014, also known
9 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Purpose
10 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
01 Intensifying our research
and intensifying our
innovation, from excellent
to outstanding
We believe in the transformative nature of research
over time. We believe in the power of innovation
for good. Trinity has always valued excellent and
curiosity-driven research.
Now, we will support and enable our researchers and students
to intensify their research and innovation, creating new knowledge
and addressing global societal challenges. We will protect the unique
place of the university to defend and disseminate research-informed
thinking and knowledge creation and transfer.
11 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
More time for research
1.1 We will provide essential support to make more time for research by reimagining
the research environment through the expansion of Trinity Research, streamlining
our administrative processes, and developing a policy on research leave.
Transformation
1.2 We will attract and retain talent at all levels. We will develop a Strategic Talent
through talent Fund, supported by philanthropy and other sources. We will deliver a step change
in our research excellence and innovation outcomes by investing in our people,
renewing our research and innovation culture, and providing the environment in
which research and innovation thrives. We will also strengthen our international
networks of collaborators, working with talented researchers around the world.
A surge of innovation
1.3 Our new innovation hub, Portal, will be a catalyst for showcasing and intensifying
our innovation and enterprise impacts, with strong collaboration and partnership.
Portal will provide additional opportunities for Trinity to make societal, cultural,
political and economic impact, locally, nationally and globally.
Better, greener research
1.4 We will continue to advocate for investment in research infrastructure for all
infrastructure and disciplines while also developing shared research services in the university
research spaces -starting with new shared and interdisciplinary space in Trinity East. We will
embed sustainability in our research and will significantly increase our certified
green labs over the lifetime of this Strategic Plan.
Telling our story
1.5 We will be a trusted leader in communicating the wide-ranging, consequential
to influence, engage impacts of our research and innovation with a diverse range of communities
and audiences. We will develop a dedicated, central communications approach
and change
to ensure our research achieves a targeted and timely reach.
12 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
02 Designing for the future
of teaching and lifelong
learning, expanding
partnerships and creating
new pathways
We are proud that Trinity is a comprehensive university,
and proud of the wide range of disciplines and inclusive
education we offer.
We believe that education is a journey of discovery, community, and
opportunity that continues long after graduation. We will open our
educational expertise and programmes to a more diverse student cohort,
heightening student access, supporting social mobility, and refreshing
our mix of student talent at all levels.
13 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
A new model for
2.1 We will adapt to students' needs recognising the changing demands of the
supporting lifelong workplace, career development and curiosity. We will harness our expertise
to conduct research on teaching, pilot and, where appropriate, mainstream
learning
new developments in curriculum design, teaching practices, lifelong learning,
and assessment, ensuring change is not a burden to our staff.
A considered and critical
2.2 We will equip staff with AI-enhanced, research-led teaching and assessment
AI education and learning methods that promote innovation, inclusion, and sustainability. Engaging our
Research Hub for Learning Innovation, we will support the application of new
environment
and emerging learning technologies, cultivating leadership in responsible AI.
Strategic growth
2.3 We are deeply committed to nurturing and extending our network of global
of our international collaborations. During the next five years we will strategically leverage our
networks, working with our LERU partners and like-minded institutions around
partnerships
the world, upscaling our traditional and more flexible offerings. Using both
discipline-specific and interdisciplinary approaches, our students will be
empowered to develop the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary
to act as successful agents of change in an increasingly volatile world.
New postgraduate
2.4 We will create a Postgraduate Education Hub and establish an Associate Dean
learning opportunities of Graduate Studies role to provide enhanced supports for postgraduate taught
courses. We will develop our Postgraduate Academy, continue to advocate
for strong support for PhDs, provide new opportunities for all PhD candidates
that give interdisciplinary, international and intersectoral experiences (Triple
I Framework) that lead to wider lifelong opportunities.
14 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
An extended access
2.5 We will recognise and respond to the needs of learners from under-represented
programme backgrounds, people who are most marginalised, and people with special and
additional needs. We will provide the supports they need to access and progress
through their chosen study programme. We will be even more inclusive by
collectively leveraging our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) team, disAbility
Service, Trinity Access Programmes, University of Sanctuary, Scholars at Risk,
our Civic Engagement for Societal Impact unit, Unit 18 outreach hub, and the
Trinity Centre for People with Intellectual Disabilities.
My lifelong Trinity
Moments that Matter
15 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
People
16 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
03 Enhancing student
belonging and connection
in an engaged and healthy
university
We exist for our students. We welcome students
from all backgrounds and cultures. We recognise
the challenges students face in these times, and
we believe strongly in supporting them
academically, socially and personally.
17 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
A fully-supported student
3.1 We will evolve our student services using our new health and disAbility centres
journey and drawing on our internationally-accredited counselling and learning support
teams. We will continue to work with government on the provision of affordable
accommodation for our students. We will review how our services-formal and
informal, expert and peer-supported-resonate and interact with each other for
the greatest benefit of all our students and at all the moments that matter in their
learning journey.
A Student Centre and
3.2 It is important that students have space that is uniquely theirs and we will
a network of student deliver our first Student Centre over the lifetime of this Strategic Plan. We will
also enhance student spaces across our campuses. We will do this by working
spaces
in partnership with the Students' Union, student clubs and societies and other
key stakeholder groups.
Transformed sport and
3.3 We will build on the existing Strategy for Sport Realising Potential by re-
healthy living positioning Sport as a key institutional priority and hiring a Director of Sport
Transformation to implement a hugely ambitious sports transformation project.
We will enhance the governance, management, and financing of sport, working
with the Trinity Sport team, including the Trinity Sport Union and Healthy Trinity.
We will improve our sports facilities, starting with the planning and design for
Iveagh Grounds.
A socially-connected
3.4 We will work with the Central Societies Committee and the student body to
university ensure our student societies expand, grow and thrive with greater support.
We will also significantly increase the community-building events for students
throughout the university, creatively using the campus-indoors and outdoors
-to ensure those with only limited time for participation can engage.
18 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
04 Creating a thriving
workplace where we all
work together to achieve
our common purpose
Our staff are dedicated and ambitious. In a thriving
workplace, all our staff can develop, grow and
be successful, with personal well-being anchored
in a strong sense of community, inclusivity and
belonging. Our staff matter and deserve care.
19 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
A good employer
4.1 We will bring the People Programme to fruition. This programme began by
looking at patterns of employment in the university, recognition and reward
opportunities for staff, as well as the academic promotion processes. To put
the work in context and bring it to life, we will live our 'Moments that Matter'
approach (see schema) by being clear about expectations, enabling staff to
grow and develop, and enhancing the employee experience.
A workplace where
4.2 We will integrate our behavioural values into everything we do, so that we are
values are fully lived clear about what to expect from each other. We will develop and implement
a campaign that will bring these values to life in the university. We will draw
on and work within sectoral frameworks that have been developed to promote
respectful and inclusive behaviours.
A workplace that
4.3 We will make it as easy as possible for all of us to do our job. A dedicated
is easy to navigate programme of activity will draw on our creativity and expertise to rework
and simplify onerous processes in the university. We will improve the flow
of information in the university, make it easier to understand and implement
our many policies, and to respond to our various legislative obligations.
A workplace where
4.4 We will continue to grow our staff development supports. In particular, we will
we are always learning strengthen leadership and management capabilities at all levels throughout
Trinity to better meet the demands of a modern university. This will include
supports to upskill to meet the opportunity of a changing workplace and more
complex external environment.
20 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
My Lifelong Trinity
Moments that Matter
Working Life in Trinity
Moments that Matter
21 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Place
22 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
05 Reimagining our physical
estate through retrofit,
refurbishment and sharing
practices
Trinity is a unique place, and we are its custodians. We
recognise our duty to use this unique place to deliver our
academic mission in the very best way we can. We must
also think beyond the lifetime of this Strategic Plan in
a sustainable way to ensure we can continue to deliver
that mission long into the centuries ahead.
23 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
A long-term, systematic
5.1 Our estate has evolved greatly over recent decades, and we need to look at it
approach to our estate in a holistic manner to ensure it best serves our mission and is a key driver in
our decarbonisation journey. We will create a structured framework for managing
our multiple campuses and locations. The delivery of our masterplan accounting
for all our campuses will be a key step towards this. It will facilitate joined-up
thinking as well as a highly coordinated approach to decision making in support
of our strategic goals in service of our purpose and people. The masterplan
will allow us to create effective options for addressing decarbonisation and
building nature positiveness, for the lifetime of this Strategic Plan and into the
long-term future.
An ambitious capital
5.2 We will support the academic mission through the delivery of an ambitious
programme of retrofit capital programme, prioritising the principle of retrofit and refurb, where
possible. We will deliver the Martin Naughton E3 Learning Foundry which
and refurb
will provide an exceptional teaching and learning environment for students.
Our retrofit and refurb programme will include: completion of the Old Library
Redevelopment Project, including the Printing House refurbishment; completion
of the first phase of Trinity East, including the opening of Portal and the Laidlaw
Digital Research and Innovation Library, with the greening of the surrounding
areas; commence the second phase of Trinity East to further increase research
and innovation; delivery of the Student Centre and the new Law School;
refurbishment of elements of the Arts Building and the Trinity St James's
Cancer Institute, and initial work on the Iveagh Grounds sports facility.
A changed culture
5.3 We will increase the utilisation of space across the university, maximising our use
of space usage of this resource in the most environmentally sustainable way for the benefit of our
staff and students. We will develop meaningful shared-space partnerships locally,
nationally and internationally.
24 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
Capital Projects at a Glance
Building Plans during this Strategic Plan
25 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
06 Advancing our digital
estate in support of a
dynamic and sustainable
academic mission
Digital transformation is much more than a technological
upgrade. It requires a change in how we do our work and
how we serve our mission.
It is key to how we will deliver our ambitions for intensifying
research and intensifying innovation, designing for the future
of teaching and lifelong learning, growing student belonging,
and ensuring our staff are thriving. It is about taking back
time for all of these. This is a big challenge, and we recognise
the importance of doing it in a sustainable way.
26 Trinity Strategic Plan 2025-2030 Overview Purpose People Place
A digital transformation
6.1 We will audit our current capabilities and future ambitions, identify the
roadmap for Trinity opportunities and the gaps, and co-create a roadmap for action. We will identify
beacon projects that can showcase the value of digital transformation and act
as motivational elements for future projects. We will develop business cases to
underpin each project on the roadmap. To progress all of this, we will recruit a
Head of Digital Transformation and put in place the governance and management
structures to support all of these activities.
Transformed and
6.2 We must address essential processes that are currently paper-based, address
digitally-empowered crucial systems nearing end of life, store, access and use data more effectively,
invest in the physical elements of the system, examine how existing and new
services
research and teaching practices can be supported, while also engaging critically
with technological advances in AI and other areas. We will do this while working
closely with colleagues across the university, drawing on experience from
previous projects, and at all stages considering the environmental impacts.
We will maintain strong oversight of the projects, create a dedicated
communications plan for engaging with staff and students as the transformation
unfolds, and provide training as work processes change and as new digital skills
need to be developed.
Our first digital-only
6.3 We will use the 'retrofit and refurb' approach to create our first digital-only
library library, the Laidlaw Research & Innovation Library, at Trinity East which will
provide access to a wide range of new digital resources on site. This new facility
will provide new space for our students to study and work in groups. It will also
provide postgraduate students with extra room for research and innovation.