LOOKING
AHEAD
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Student Maddy with staff
member, Rhyann Roberts
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
CONTENTS
A Message from our Chancellor 1
and Vice-Chancellor
Our Regions 3
Our Journey: What We Heard 6
Our Strategic Issues 7
Our Vision, Our Purpose, Our Commitment 9
Our Values 12
Strategic Priorities 14
Our Commitment to Indigenous Higher 15
Education, Innovation and Engagement
Engagement Priorities 19
Life-Ready Graduates 23
Asia Pacific Focus 27
Reimagining Our Campuses 31
Inspiring People 35
Implementing Our Strategy 39
Measuring Success 40
Alignment with National 41
and Global Objectives
Phasing of Our Strategy 43
A MESSAGE FROM
OUR CHANCELLOR
AND VICE-CHANCELLOR
Our communities, our regions, our responsibility.
Welcome to Looking Ahead, the University of Newcastle Strategic Plan 2020-2025.
Our vision is to be a world-leading university for our regions.
When we look ahead, we are motivated by the graduates is more healthy, resilient and community-
opportunities we see. We are driven by the minded when they leave our institution than when
challenges we need to solve. And we are stirred they arrived. Helping to develop these life-ready
by the future we can imagine. graduates will be at the core of our actions.
This strategic plan is our framework for creating We will establish four Engagement Priorities to guide
that very future. A future where Australia's First our research and education efforts. We will draw on
Peoples are empowered and enjoy true equality. A the wisdom of our Indigenous communities and use
future where anyone who has the drive and talent to the lessons we've learned through the success of
succeed is given the opportunity to study. A future entities like the Newcastle Institute for Energy and
where our research benefits our local communities Resources (NIER) and the Hunter Medical Research
as well as our fellow global citizens. A future where Institute (HMRI) to address global challenges.
our environment is safeguarded and at the heart of Knowing we have an important place in the
all of our big decisions. Asia Pacific Region, we will pursue deeper and
We will create this future together. We are a richer partnerships and engagements in this
University of our regions and for our regions. region, and as a global citizen we will proudly
Indeed, in shaping this strategic plan, we have contribute to the United Nations Sustainable
asked our students, our staff and our communities Development Goals (SDGs).
to tell us what is most important to them. And we've In doing all this, we will make sure our regions
listened. With more than 4,500 contributions, at the continue to benefit from having their own university.
heart of this plan is the voice of the people with By reimagining our campuses, we will open the doors
whom we will share our future. to let the community in. Together with our inspiring
Over the coming five years, our University has people, we will cultivate a thriving innovation and
much to do. start-up culture and will bring global expertise and
With an outstanding student experience clearly knowledge to drive the future of these communities.
in our sights, we will build on our reputation for There is much to do. We know this won't always be an
high-quality education and research in health easy journey, but we know it is the right one.
and medicine, science and engineering, energy The spirit of looking to the future - of imagining
and the environment, business and law, and and then realising possibilities - is embedded in
education and arts. the rich heritage of our University. Indeed, our
We will prepare our students for the rapidly changing motto 'I look ahead' has long embodied that
world by giving them more opportunities for work forward-looking character and resolve.
experience before they graduate. And, we will We are excited to be Looking Ahead with you.
introduce new measures to make sure each of our
Mr P.E. (Paul) Jeans Professor Alex Zelinsky AO
Chancellor Vice-Chancellor and
President
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Newcastle, the home
of our city campus
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
1940s 1965 1983
1974
Community campaigns Gains autonomy from the Wollotuka begins as a
for a University of University of New South Enabling education support program for
Newcastle Wales courses first offered Indigenous students
1951 1971 1978
Founded Great Hall construction Inaugural Bachelor
1952 commences with bricks of Medicine cohort
purchased by the commences, introducing
First
community Problem-Based Learning
students
We were established to serve the needs of the
OUR
Hunter and Central Coast - a responsibility that is
legislated in our University Act.
REGIONS The Newcastle and Hunter Region has reinvented
itself many times. With a strong Indigenous
community, a rich industrial and resources history,
and an emerging arts and digital culture, the region
is one of the most representative of Australia and is
a true microcosm of Australian society.
The Hunter is Australia's largest regional economy,
generating more wealth on an annual basis than
Tasmania, the Northern Territory or the ACT.
We are home to a wide range of industries from
health, education, advanced manufacturing, to
tourism, agriculture, aquaculture and fisheries,
mining and resources, power generation, viticulture
and defence.
For more than 30 years, we have been serving
our community on the Central Coast through our
Ourimbah campus. The Central Coast region has
experienced a dramatic transformation during this
time. It is now the fastest growing region in NSW
The Hunter Valley and recognised as a Significant Urban Area by the
Australian Bureau of Statistics.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
2019
2010
Our 100th
2002
Newcastle Institute for Indigenous
1992
Operations in Singapore Energy and Resources medical doctor
Law School opens commence (NIER) opens graduates
1989 1998 2009 2018
First students taught on Hunter Medical Research Sydney campus opens NUspace opens
the Central Coast Institute (HMRI) opens
1995
Ourimbah campus
officially opens
Affordable housing, commuter corridors to Sydney training our future health and medical workforce,
and Newcastle, and a diverse population have incubating and accelerating regional start-ups and
attracted government and industry investment to engaging in regionally focused research.
the Central Coast. Skilled workers are also making Our communities are not only defined by where
their way to the region with sector expertise in we have a physical presence. They are where our
healthcare and social assistance, education and students come from, and are where many return
training, food manufacturing, tourism, logistics, home. They are where the industries with which we
agriculture and construction. The University will collaborate are based, and are where the benefits of
soon open the Central Coast Medical School and our innovation are felt by communities.
Research Institute in Gosford.
In an increasingly digital and globalised world, the
However, there are barriers to prosperity. Income reach of our communities is ever growing. While we
inequality, a lack of housing affordability, will always, first and foremost, be a university for the
unemployment, mental and physical illness and Hunter, Central Coast and broader NSW regions, our
family violence continue to challenge policy makers communities stretch to Sydney, the South Pacific,
and community workers in our regions. Participation Singapore, throughout Asia and across the world.
rates in higher education are below the state
average and youth unemployment is too high.
The University has a strong presence across regional
NSW - in Orange, Tamworth, Muswellbrook,
Port Macquarie, Coffs Harbour, Armidale, Taree and
Moree. We're committed to serving NSW through
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Traditional Custodians
The University of Newcastle acknowledges the traditional custodians of the
lands within our footprint areas: Awabakal Nation, Darkinjung Nation,
Biripai Nation, Worimi Nation, Wonnarua Nation and Eora Nation. We also
pay respect to the wisdom of our Elders past and present.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
OUR JOURNEY:
WHAT WE HEARD
From the outset, our journey to develop Looking Ahead was grounded in a desire to understand
what our staff, students and communities want and need us to be.
As an anchoring institution in regional Australia, we Our local communities said they are proud to
have sought to align our priorities and direction with have a university of our global standing in their
those of government, business and the community regions. They want greater visibility of the positive
around us, from the local perspective through to a contributions that we make. They want to have
global view. more reasons to come to our campuses and engage
We reflected on our previous strategic plan - New with our activities and events. Overwhelmingly,
Futures - identifying our strengths, celebrating our our communities expect us to be local, national
successes and ensuring that we roll forward key and global leaders in climate change and
aspects of the plan into our new strategy. environmental sustainability.
We also considered where the pressures, challenges Our civic leaders consistently spoke of entrenched
and opportunities may lie over the next decade inequality or disadvantage within our regions. While
for our University. In an increasingly connected the specific issues differed, they were united in their
and digital world, developments outside of higher view that more work must be done to ensure all
education are becoming as important as those people in our communities have the opportunity
within, if not more so. to lead healthy, fulfilling and dignified lives. They
want the University to be a catalyst for job creation
Consultation for Looking Ahead took several months,
and transformation, as well as help break cycles of
spanning all of our stakeholder groups, and included
intergenerational disadvantage.
surveys, town hall forums, focus groups, targeted
interviews, a discussion paper, community pop-ups, a Our Indigenous partners spoke of the long and deep
presence at University events, and a feedback portal. history that their people have with the Hunter and
Central Coast regions and, more recently, with the
We had more than 4,500 unique interactions with
University of Newcastle. There is a strong desire
our stakeholders. Those we consulted included
for this deep connection to continue, and for our
staff, students, leaders in the business community,
University to intensify its already considerable efforts
civic leaders, the not-for-profit sector, Indigenous
in improving outcomes and creating opportunities
organisations and members of the public, as well
for the community.
as members of our 150,000-strong global alumni
community whose voices are represented across The business community praised our graduates,
these stakeholder groups. and emphasised the need for them to be work-
ready as they enter the workforce. They spoke of
OUR COMMUNITIES SPOKE, well-rounded graduates who have not only the
AND WE LISTENED technical skills to excel in a given field, but also
Our students, both current and prospective, told us the communication, leadership and interpersonal
that while getting a job was a primary motivation for qualities that enable them to succeed in a
attending university, they were most concerned with contemporary economy. The business community
our institution delivering action on climate change understands that partnering in innovation with our
and being environmentally sustainable. University will be important for the future prosperity
of our regions.
Our staff emphasised the importance of delivering a
first-rate student experience both within courses but The not-for-profit and community sector spoke
also across our physical and digital environments. of a desire to better engage with the University,
They believe we should continue to be a strong, to be able to use our spaces and places, and for
research-intensive university. They also want our our graduates to not only be work-ready, but also
organisation to be more risk-tolerant and innovative, community-minded with a sense of responsibility for
to have a stronger culture of collaboration and those around them.
performance, and to retain and grow our strong All of these perspectives have been invaluable in
tradition in Indigenous education and engagement. shaping Looking Ahead.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
OUR STRATEGIC
ISSUES
Looking Ahead seeks to respond to a
number of local, national and global
strategic issues and opportunities.
Staff members: Dr Paul Stolk and
Dr Tamara Young
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Our communities want us to provide leadership
on issues that impact our regions, such as Our Ourimbah campus
entrenched inequality, a transitioning economy,
balancing land use and climate change.
Our communities increasingly expect the
University of Newcastle to take a leadership
position on environmental sustainability.
Competition for students, research funding and
industry partnerships is increasing both within
the sector and beyond from non-traditional
competitors.
Economic power continues to shift from West to
East, and education and research are increasingly
globalised.
Digital and micro-credential disruption of the
higher education sector is accelerating.
Addressing global challenges and opportunities
such as delivering upon the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals.
Student expectations are pivoting toward
personalised experience, flexible study and
developing practical skills for a workforce in
which they will have multiple careers.
Understanding the Federal and State policy
horizon is key to leveraging opportunities.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
OUR
VISION
To be a world-leading
university for our regions.
OUR
PURPOSE
To deliver an exceptional student experience, preparing
graduates for life in an increasingly interconnected society.
To serve our regions by taking research that matters to the
world and bringing our global expertise home.
OUR
COMMITMENT
We will be a leading advocate and driving force for
excellence and equity in higher education.
We will deliver an outstanding and inspiring student
experience. We will ensure our students develop life and
career skills that will make them competitive in the
workforce, and are strongly supported in their
physical and mental wellbeing.
We will bring the world to our regions, and take our
regions to the world through relevant research solutions
to local, national and global problems.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Students: Jessica and Skip
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Students: Simone, Stefanie and Patrick
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
OUR
VALUES
Our values set the standards that we expect, encourage
and nurture in our staff and students. They guide our
decision making and position us to achieve our purpose.
EXCELLENCE ENGAGEMENT
We pursue the exceptional We are deeply connected
and strive for innovation in to the challenges and
our teaching, research and opportunities in our
operating environment. regions and beyond.
EQUITY SUSTAINABILITY
We are committed to We are ethically minded
widening participation, and prioritise responsible
promoting diversity and management of our
fairness, overcoming injustice environment and financial
and increasing success for all. resources.
SHAPING OUR 2025 GOALS
We will hold ourselves to account on our values,
to ensure that we are genuinely living them.
Our 2025 goals for each of our strategic initiatives
have been determined through the lens of our values.
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Students: Courtney and Tiffany
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
STRATEGIC
PRIORITIES
N E
E Q
L U
E L nt t o
Indigenous
H ig h
I T
e r
C m E Y
t d
E X C o m m i A G E R M I T E IE N S T G L R I A F D E U - R E A u c a t i o
r N
R I
O A
u EP E I
O S n
OUTSTANDING
STUDENT
A EXPERIENCE GS t
S N S E o i
F I A SERVING OUR N IU n
O C P A COMMUNITIES A G I M P n a
UC M A d
F I E I R
C RU n Y
O g
E a T
N INSPIRING
G PEOPLE n e I
t B
G A
M I
E T
N S
T U
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
OUR COMMITMENT
TO INDIGENOUS
HIGHER EDUCATION,
INNOVATION AND
ENGAGEMENT
We are proud of our record in Indigenous
higher education, innovation and engagement,
which has been driven by relationships with
the Indigenous community and through the
work of the Wollotuka Institute.
We are the sector leader in terms of Indigenous
student enrolments and the employment of
Indigenous staff, and commit to building on
this strength and extending our collaboration
and partnerships with Indigenous peoples
of our regions and beyond.
"Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures,
knowledge and experiences are fundamental to
Australia's social, economic and cultural wellbeing."
Alice Springs (Mparntwe) Education Declaration
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Students: Tahlia and Kadina
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Staff members Denise Emmerson and
Raymond Kelly with student, Maddy (centre)
We are guided by the Wollotuka Cultural Standards,
expressed through our inter-institutional relationships.
Our relationships are based on the principles of reciprocity,
accountability and respect. Through these principles, we commit to:
• Pursuing the highest rates of success among • Being the preferred employer and partner
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students university for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
across all disciplines people and communities
• Becoming the leading university for global • Nurturing an environment where Aboriginal
Indigenous comparative studies, research and and Torres Strait Islander stakeholders are
educational approaches challenged to innovate in culturally affirming,
globally aware ways.
Our activities will further be informed by the Universities Australia Indigenous Strategy,
the University of Newcastle Indigenous Higher Education Framework and our Reconciliation Action Plan.
Bula Wiyawiyelli - 'those two [who] are talking.'
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
MEANINGFUL ENGAGEMENT IN OUR REGIONS RECONCILIATION
We seek to co-develop initiatives to grow the The 60,000 years of Australia's First Peoples
economic potential of our regions. Drawing from cultures are the foundation to our identity as
the wisdom of knowledge traditions will give us an Australian university. Reconciliation between
the best chance to achieve the best results for Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians is
everyone in our communities. Through the inclusion everyone's responsibility and benefits all. We will
of Indigenous knowledge, we will champion provide an environment that is free from racism and
multidisciplinary research and collaboration to find discrimination, and embrace a united approach to
solutions that benefit our community. equality and inclusiveness.
Our practices will be consistent with the UN
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and
the State of Reconciliation in Australia Report. We
are especially mindful of the impact we can have in
terms of institutional integrity as a leading voice for
reconciliation in our regions.
CLOSING THE GAP
To help improve life outcomes for Indigenous peoples we will build new partnerships
while strengthening existing partnerships with local Aboriginal organisations.
With our strengths in medicine, health and education, we are well-placed to help
improve life expectancy, child mortality, and early childhood outcomes. The University
has a leading role to play in achieving better outcomes in education attainment and
employment for our Aboriginal communities.
OUR EXCELLENCE: We will be world leaders in Indigenous:
• Health research
• Education research
2025 • Global histories research
• Language research
EQUITY: Our Indigenous staff representation will achieve parity
GOALS
for our region and will extend our position as the leading
university in Indigenous staff participation across the country.
We will employ and develop Indigenous academic staff across
all faculties in the University.
ENGAGEMENT: Our Indigenous students and staff will
be supported, increasing retention rates across all areas
of the University.
SUSTAINABILITY: We will work with Indigenous people and be
guided by Indigenous knowledges to look after and promote
country and culture. We will embed the use of traditional
knowledge into our campus design and planning processes.
SUCOF
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
ENGAGEMENT
PRIORITIES
By leveraging our unique heritage - and our academic and research
excellence - we will create the ultimate test bed for innovation.
We will establish four Engagement Priorities that build on
the significant track record of success and the strengths of our
University, and that reflect the issues and opportunities relevant
to the future of our regions and our world. These interconnected
priorities will guide our research, education and engagement
efforts and will shape our collaboration with industry
and community stakeholders.
The four priorities reflect the mission-driven issues we have the
capacity, expertise and civic responsibility to address.
We will use our capabilities, experience and collaboration
to deliver outcomes that matter for our partners.
The priorities address the challenges our partners are committed to,
such as tackling climate change, transforming industries, building
a culture of regional entrepreneurship that sparks new industries,
creating and educating future workforces, finding practical ways
to build stronger and more inclusive communities, and
improving the health and wellbeing of people here in our
regions and around the world.
"Innovation is the product of a collaborative
ecosystem and culture."
Australia 2030: Prosperity through Innovation,
Innovation and Science Australia
Associate Professor Elena Prieto-Rodriguez
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Dr Emma Beckett
with student, Kiraujit
Professor Paul Dastoor
Associate Professor Elena Prieto-Rodriguez
Professor Paul Dastoor.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Dr Jafar Zanganeh and Mohammed J Ajrash Al-Zuraiji
ENGAGEMENT PRIORITIES
BETTER, HEALTHIER NEXT GENERATION
LIVING RESOURCES
We will deliver better health We will bring the world closer to a
outcomes and contribute to sustainable future with solutions
improving the wellbeing of for the use of natural resources and
our communities. the development of new energy
technologies.
CONNECTED GROWING
COMMUNITIES INDUSTRIES
We will create a stronger, more We will harness our regions' innovative
inclusive society by collaborating spirit and history of transformation
with communities to build local to help grow our current industries
capacity, social connectedness, and and drive investment into future
sense of belonging. opportunities.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
KEY INITIATIVES
LIVING LAB MODEL ENGAGEMENT PATHWAYS
To advance our four Engagement Priorities, we will We will develop clear pathways that make it
implement a Living Lab model to facilitate partner- easier for businesses, industry and community to
led problem solving and innovation that stretches connect and collaborate with us. This will result
beyond the boundaries of our University. in new partnerships, new research connections,
This model will see students, researchers, improved entrepreneurship and commercialisation
academics, alumni and industry and community opportunities, and more Work Integrated Learning
partners coming together to create new knowledge. partners and employers for our students.
They will be empowered to experiment with new
INSTITUTIONAL ALIGNMENT
technologies, craft policy concepts, explore cultural
We will prioritise our strategic investments to
ideas, break new ground in teaching and learning,
support the four Engagement Priorities and drive
and embrace a spirit of entrepreneurship to drive
true multidisciplinary collaboration between
commercial innovation.
faculties, divisions, students, researchers, and our
MULTIDISCIPLINARY NETWORKS various stakeholders.
We will establish dedicated networks to drive
multidisciplinary collaboration across the four
priority areas. These networks will drive our
research, innovation and collaboration efforts. They
will also identify ways to involve staff and students
in the creative problem-solving process and advise
on academic needs to ensure we are preparing
students for the future of work.
THE HYDROGEN ECONOMY
The University has a strong track record in energy innovation, and our communities have
told us they want the University to take a lead in tackling climate change. We are exploring
the challenges associated with sustainable hydrogen energy.
Through our Engagement Priorities and a Living Lab, the University will work with industry
and community partners to pursue multidisciplinary research, future-focused education and
potential commercial solutions that support low-emission hydrogen production, storage,
and distribution, energy policy, national and international supply chains and global exports.
This work will help drive the next generation of new jobs and investment in our regions,
while also contributing to a clean energy future for our planet.
EXCELLENCE: We will see continued growth in our
OUR
performance in independent external rankings for
teaching and research excellence.
EQUITY: We will continually increase the number of students
2025
and staff participating in multidisciplinary collaboration,
workplace learning, and professional development.
GOALS ENGAGEMENT: We will grow partner-led multidisciplinary
collaborations designed to deliver real-world outcomes,
impact and scalability that increase research income and
Work Integrated Learning opportunities for students.
SUSTAINABILITY: We will adopt innovative teaching, research
and engagement models that not only support the future of our
regions but also drive positive change nationally and globally.
SUCOF
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
LIFE-READY
GR ADUATES
The University will embrace technology and
best practices to deliver the best possible student
experience. Recognising the rapidly changing
environment our students will be entering
when they graduate, our education experience
will prioritise activities that help develop
life-ready graduates who are community-
minded, resilient and ready for work.
We will foster a passion for lifelong learning,
and offer opportunities for our graduates to
re-engage with our courses throughout
their lives and careers.
"Being able to see a link between theory and practice
instils a thirst for knowledge and skills."
Alice Springs (Mparntwe) Education Declaration
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Student Tim (left) and staff member Sarah Breusch
(centre) engaging with the community at a
Law on the Beach clinic
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Work Integrated Learning experience with
student Iain and Central Coast Mariners
staff member, David McGinness
WORK-READY KEY INITIATIVES
Students graduating today can be expected to have WORK INTEGRATED LEARNING FOR ALL
multiple careers. Work-ready students need a range Experiential workplace learning opportunities
of flexible and transferable skills that will enable promote skills development, build self-awareness,
them to work collaboratively across professions foster innovative thinking, assist in career planning
and transition between careers. Our students will and support student transition into the world
graduate with a clear understanding of their value of work.
and skills, knowledge and capabilities to prepare
All of our undergraduates will have a Work
them for life.
Integrated Learning experience during their studies.
Engagement will be with business, government,
HEALTHY AND WELL
start-ups, research teams, not-for-profits,
multidisciplinary initiatives, and international
Affirming programs that equip students with the
organisations. The offer will be flexible and
skills and knowledge needed to support and
personalised to the needs of our stakeholders,
prioritise their safety and wellbeing will be essential
including a focus on local opportunities that will
in producing graduates who are able to connect and
see our students contributing to our regions. Such
support themselves and their communities.
an experience, supported by employability learning,
COMMUNITY-MINDED will enable our graduates to make informed career
choices. It will also contextualise their academic
Our students will have a deep cultural awareness, learning and will help graduates to understand the
a commitment to social, ethical and sustainable skill sets that are relevant to employers.
practices and an eagerness to contribute to We will look at innovative ways to facilitate greater
the community. engagement by developing a flexible academic
They will be advocates for our University and see us calendar and new modes of program delivery.
as supporting their lifelong educational journey.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
GRADUATE ATTRIBUTES CELEBRATING EXCELLENCE
To prepare our students for this future, we will We will offer a prestigious scholarship and
develop and instil a set of skills and attributes that extra-curricular development recognition program,
will guide their development - to mark them as acknowledged during graduation ceremonies, to
distinct, globally aware, ready for the world of work those students who have demonstrated exceptional
and committed to lifelong learning. We will develop achievement aligned to our University values, future
the capability for students to digitally store, share employer skills needs and contributions made to
and manage the credentials, skills and attributes the community. This will offer them a competitive
they obtain from the University to support Work advantage in the workplace.
Integrated Learning, employability and lifelong
STUDENT-CENTRED WELLBEING
learning. Our graduates will be encouraged to be
active members of our alumni community. We will design a student wellbeing framework that
exemplifies our student experience and supports
wellbeing throughout the student journey, including
lifelong learning. We will deliver a comprehensive
care infrastructure which provides quality support
for students' social, mental, and physical wellbeing.
We will develop a range of initiatives to guide
students to understand themselves and build
self-help strategies. Our graduates will have the
resilience and determination to effectively engage
with the challenges and opportunities presented by
modern society.
MORE THAN A PLACEMENT
The most employable graduates develop a portfolio of experiences that demonstrate essential
workplace skills and build on the knowledge of their degree. These skills are learnt away from
the classroom and beyond textbooks, such as participating in a clinical or professional work
placement, practicum or internship, as well as field work, community engagement activities
and project-based learning. Our Work Integrated Learning programs are forged on strong
partnerships with leading local and global organisations. For example, our Newcastle Law School
has a strong history of providing students with the opportunity to gain real-world experience by
working in free legal advice clinics through the University of Newcastle Legal Centre programs,
such as Law on the Beach. Our programs challenge and inspire students to acquire practical,
real-world workplace skills, enriching their theoretical learning and enhancing employability.
OUR EXCELLENCE: We will be one of the top universities in Australia for
Student Satisfaction and Graduate Employment as measured by
the Quality Indicators for Learning and Teaching (QILT) Graduate
Outcomes Survey (GOS).
2025
EQUITY: We will have the same retention and success rates for
all of our students - whether they be students from Indigenous,
low-SES or regional/remote backgrounds, with a disability or not.
GOALS
ENGAGEMENT: All undergraduate students will have a Work
Integrated Learning opportunity within their program.
SUSTAINABILITY: Student wellbeing as measured by the Student
Healthy Lifestyle Survey will increase every year.
SUCOF
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
ASIA
PACIFIC
FOCUS
With a proud history of global
collaboration and success, we will
pursue opportunities for partnerships
and engagement in the Asia Pacific
Region across business and government.
As a globally and socially committed
institution, we will invest the capabilities
of our students and staff to drive solutions
to significant global issues. The initiatives
put in place will make a University of
Newcastle education available and relevant
to the Asia Pacific Region.
"Australia will engage with the Pacific with
greater intensity and ambition."
Foreign Policy White Paper,
Commonwealth of Australia
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Students: Jingyi and Jiasheng
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Alumnus: Ronnie Aiolupotea
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS FOR GLOBAL IMPACT
Partnering with other universities, civic Our physical and virtual presence in the Asia Pacific
organisations, industry and philanthropists ensures Region enables us to address challenges aligned
we are able to amplify our ingenuity and success to our Engagement Priorities through research
in contributing to solutions to global challenges. collaboration and enriched student and staff
We will work with partners to address these issues experiences. We will establish global gateways
through multidisciplinary research and two-way between the University and the Asia Pacific Region.
exchange of our staff and students. We will be
recognised globally as an institution of excellence
for our engagement and impact and sought out as a
collaborative partner in the Asia Pacific Region.
DRIVEN BY PEOPLE
People are the foundation of cooperative
partnerships - our staff, students and alumni.
Our staff will be globally engaged, contributing
their knowledge and expertise to our regions. Our
students will have a truly global experience and
outlook characterised by diversity, mobility and
knowledge exchange. Our alumni will be advocates
for our University globally, helping to build our
reputation and fostering a community of past,
current and future learners.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
KEY INITIATIVES
ASIA PACIFIC PARTNERSHIPS EMPOWERED AND CONNECTED
We will forge mutually beneficial partnerships in We will strengthen connections with alumni,
the Asia Pacific Region to support collaborations, recognising the significance of their lifelong
international student recruitment, transnational relationship with the University. We will take
education programs, staff and student exchange, opportunities to use our outstanding alumni
and both outbound and inbound student mobility. and staff to assist with student recruitment,
These partnerships will enhance the University's marketing, industry introductions and engagement,
research strengths, expand access to international government liaison in offshore locations, running
research funding schemes, increase impact lectures, mentoring start-ups, student outbound
and entrepreneurship opportunities, and and inbound mobility and Work Integrated
build reputation. Learning opportunities.
We will establish joint institutes with partner
OUR ASIA PACIFIC HUBS: SYDNEY AND
institutions in the Asia Pacific Region to address
SINGAPORE
complex global issues and to drive the activities
We will maximise the potential that our activities in
of our partnerships.
the gateway cities of Sydney and Singapore bring in
GLOBALLY ENGAGED EDUCATION enhancing student experience, connecting students
We will embrace a global focus in all learning, and researchers with business and industry and
ensuring curriculum and programs are building our global presence and reputation.
internationally relevant, attractive and flexible, and
contribute to making our graduates life-ready.
PARTNERING IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC
As a globally and socially committed institution, we are working with partners across the world
to build equitable prosperity, social cohesion and healthy communities. Of critical importance is
ensuring that our nearest neighbours, the Pacific Islands, are supported in the face of significant
environmental, social and economic challenges. Our partnership with the Secretariat of the
Pacific Regional Environment Programme will deliver cooperative and sustainable solutions
to complex challenges faced by Pacific Island communities. With a focus on collaboration, we
have formed educational partnerships with the Fiji National University and the University of
the South Pacific. Through these initiatives and partnerships, we will invest in the capabilities
of our students, staff and partners to deliver multidisciplinary research and research training,
particularly in the areas of agriculture and fisheries, disaster management and health, in order
to drive solutions to significant global issues.
OUR EXCELLENCE: We will establish three partnered institutes that
deliver demonstrable improvements in our research engagement,
our education programs, our student experience, and promote
the stature of the University on a global stage.
2025
EQUITY: We will see continued growth in the number of students
participating in inbound and outbound mobility opportunities in
the Asia Pacific Region, making us a leader in student mobility,
GOALS
measured as a proportion of our student cohort.
ENGAGEMENT: We will see an increase in uptake of engagement
opportunities for alumni that enable them to contribute to our
University's outcomes, including mentoring and Work Integrated
Learning opportunities, research and engagement partnerships,
and philanthropic support.
SUSTAINABILITY: We will diversify our student cohort and
experience by growing the number of students from Asia
and the Pacific and reach the national average for
international student commencements.
SUCOF
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
REIMAGINING
OUR
CAMPUSES
By reimagining our campuses, we will create
an experience that connects us with society
and our communities.
Our campuses will be digitally enabled,
environmentally responsible, safe, vibrant,
and accessible, adding a new dimension of
engagement and collaboration beyond our
physical boundaries for students, researchers
and the world. Each of our campuses will
have an identity that meets the specific needs
of its surrounding regions and aligns with
our Engagement Priorities.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Our Callaghan campus
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Our Callaghan campus
TRANSFORM KEY INITIATIVES
Our digital and physical environments will be
REPOSITION EXISTING ESTATE
transformed into spaces, places and platforms that
To ensure our campuses are purpose-driven, we will
inspire and attract. Our campus environments will
target investment in a smart and sustainable way.
facilitate strategic partnerships and enable adaptive
We will drive a refurbishment program focused on
reuse of our facilities. With industry and community
repurposing our existing environments to align with
collocating on our campuses we will invigorate
our four Engagement Priorities, and new ways of
strategic partnerships and collaboration.
working, teaching and learning.
TO A GREEN CAMPUS
NEW PARTNERS, NEW USES
We will provide exemplar leadership in sustainable We will rethink the role our campuses play, identify
resource management. We will be a leader in new partners and create new uses for our campuses
sustainability outcomes and practices in our regions that are civic-minded and attract new populations.
and the higher education sector, delivering a clear With our new development partners and enterprise
action path for positive change that will improve collocation, we will have greater connection and
the University's environmental sustainability interaction with our communities, industry partners
performance, and result in lasting financial and and stakeholders, driving Work Integrated Learning
social benefits. opportunities and creating multidisciplinary research
opportunities which transition to our partners.
THROUGH A CONNECTED
EXPERIENCE
We will connect the University with our communities
to create a vibrant experience accessible to all.
The student and staff campus experience will be
enriched with personalised and digital experiences.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
DIGITAL EXCELLENCE CAMPUS ACCESSIBILITY
We will offer a personalised and seamless Integral to the overall experience is how well we
experience across our digital environment through facilitate the movement within and between our
developing an ecosystem of digital platforms campuses. Each campus has its own set of needs
that enable us to create a deep and rich learning that require tailored responses. Across all campuses
experience that is open and accessible at any we can deliver smart solutions to optimise and
time. These platforms will open up our research personalise the travel and transport experience.
capabilities, and enable sophisticated analytics to We will work with government and industry partners
support strategic decision making. to explore opportunities to connect our Callaghan
campus with our region in a way that hasn't existed
PLACES TO LIVE, LEARN, WORK AND PLAY
before, through the creation of a regional
We will leverage our environments to deliver a transport hub.
multi-dimensional service that focuses on wellbeing
SUSTAINABLE CAMPUSES
and creating vibrant, connected communities,
supported by digital social connections. We will In response to our communities' voice, we will
create a feeling of connectedness to our University build on our Environmental Sustainability Plan.
by providing reasons for students and the We will implement environmental initiatives that
community to continually engage with us, physically work towards carbon neutrality, zero waste and
and digitally. We will combine smart, personalised leading water recycling strategies. Through our
and inspiring experiences with a world-class research, education and campus management
program of events that create vibrant, connected strategies, we will lead our regions to a more
communities. We will pilot and scale a set of physical sustainable future.
and digital solutions that enable collaboration and
enhance staff experience.
DIGITAL SUSTAINABILITY
As a sustainable university, we have committed to responsible management of our digital
resources including an organisation-wide commitment to cloud computing. We will minimise
the need to have technology hardware on-site by providing a scalable solution to reduce the
environmental impact of ongoing investment in physical technology and its maintenance,
while also future-proofing our digital environment.
OUR EXCELLENCE: Student and staff satisfaction with our physical
and digital environments will increase, as measured through
satisfaction surveys.
2025 EQUITY: Our environments will be accessible to all through
anywhere, anytime digital platforms, and an estate that responds
to the needs of all in our community.
GOALS ENGAGEMENT: Our environments will be used by staff, students,
industry, partners and our communities at all times of the day and
throughout the year.
SUSTAINABILITY: We will be carbon emissions neutral by 2025.
SUCOF
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
INSPIRING
PEOPLE
With our dedication to excellence and
equity, our focus on engagement, and our
commitment to sustainability, we will build
on the passion, commitment and expertise
of our people to focus on collaboration,
innovation and agility.
Our staff will be empowered and developed
as outstanding thought leaders in a high-
performing institution guiding students on
their journey to becoming life-ready graduates,
local ambassadors, and global citizens.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
Staff member Leah Armstrong with
cultural mentor, Aunty Laurel Williams
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Staff members: Dr Chethana Illankoon,
Rob Brooks and Rachael Laybutt
EXCELLENCE IN OUR PEOPLE IN A SAFE AND HEALTHY
WORKPLACE
In a high-performing institution, our leaders will
be inspirational and future-focused. They will
We are committed to developing a culture that
drive innovation, engagement and organisational
strives for continuous improvement in health, safety
adaptability, supporting staff to be creative, flexible
and wellbeing that embodies strong leadership
and resourceful. Together we will be responsive
commitment, high levels of staff and student
to emerging challenges and opportunities for
engagement, and is integrated into - not separate
competitive advantage.
to - business decisions and processes.
OUR CULTURE
Guided by our values, we will enhance opportunities KEY INITIATIVES
for collaboration, inclusion and multidisciplinary
education and research. We will find more and
A HIGH-PERFORMING INSTITUTION
better ways for people to share their talents across
We are an institution dedicated to high performance
our University with leadership and mentoring at all
at all levels of the organisation. Working with our
levels, including with students. Our workforce will
academic and professional staff, we will review and
prioritise understanding student needs in order to
reshape the Academic Performance Expectations
enhance the student experience and will be leaders
Framework (PEF), Performance Expectations for
in multidisciplinary research that is
professional staff, and our workload models to
end-user inspired.
reflect our values and strategic priorities. We will
reward collaborative behaviour and build a positive
engagement and impact mindset.
We will establish a holistic change framework and
program targeted at leaders, change champions and
staff to build in-house capability supporting change
in a timely and adaptable way.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
BUILDING LEADERSHIP AND CAPABILITY A VALUES-BASED CULTURE
Recognising the talent within our institution, we We will build a culture grounded in our values of
will create opportunities for our staff to be our excellence, equity, engagement and sustainability,
students, and our students to be our staff. Our bringing a range of perspectives, disciplines and
staff will be offered access to our University's expertise to our community. Fostering leadership
courses, enabling them not only to benefit from practices that maximise equity, diversity and
professional development but also gain first-hand inclusion, cultivating a collaborative mindset and
insight into the student experience. We will prioritise celebrating achievements will be essential to
engagement with high-performing students, shaping our values-based culture.
bringing them into our organisation as the next
HEALTHY AND SAFE WORKPLACE
generation of academic and professional talent.
We will adopt a beyond-zero approach to our
OUTSTANDING TALENT
safety management to ensure that our University
We will ensure our Employee Value and Student is a place where our staff and students feel safe,
Experience propositions are aligned with best valued and empowered.
practice to attract, retain and nurture exceptional We will build a shared mentality of care and
staff and students. personal commitment by providing our people
with the opportunity to enhance their physical
and psychological wellbeing at work.
NEW WAYS OF COLLABORATION
Government and business have recognised that Science, Technology, Engineering,
Mathematics and Medicine (STEMM) skills are increasingly vital in helping enterprises
to innovate, to create jobs and growth, and importantly, to improve our quality of life.
Our vision is to embed new ways of learning, teaching and research that span the
STEMM disciplines, supported by cutting-edge infrastructure to enable the collision of
ideas. This will allow us to continue to produce research with real-world impact, create
future-facing graduates, and forge closer connections with industry. In 2023 we will
open our $207m STEMM facility to facilitate multidisciplinary collaboration.
OUR EXCELLENCE: Our reputation will make us the university
of choice for prospective staff and students.
EQUITY: We will be among the first Australian universities
2025 to achieve Silver Athena SWAN accreditation, reflecting our
leadership in diversity and inclusion supporting staff and
student success.
GOALS ENGAGEMENT: We will be a leading university
in the sector for staff engagement.
SUSTAINABILITY: We will be an exemplar in meeting or
exceeding international work health and safety standards.
SUCOF
DEVELOPMENT
GOALS
SUSTAINABLE UNITED
NATIONS
ALIGNED
WITH
THE
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
Staff members: Alisha-Jane Laney,
Taona Afful and Brock Johnston
IMPLEMENTING
OUR STR ATEGY
Achieving our ambitious plan will require focus A core objective for our institution is to remain
across the organisation and collaboration with financially sustainable. We will identify methods
our communities, partners and civic leaders. As to diversify our revenue streams in our strategic
a one-university region with a unique industrial plan delivery, including but not limited to, our
base, we are the natural partner for deep industrial, philanthropic capacity and the development of
commercial and social opportunities. The alignment key partnerships to cooperatively fund mutually
of our strategic priorities, enabling strategies, beneficial activities.
business systems, and processes will be We will respond to higher education dynamics,
fundamental to success. advances in technology and changing markets
Ongoing monitoring and evaluation of our progress by being innovative in our business and delivery
and outcomes will be critical to ensuring our models, reflecting the needs and preferences of our
activities are directed toward achieving our vision. students and our communities.
We will establish a strategy framework to reflect our We will pilot innovative business models for the
Engagement Priorities and realise our Life-Ready delivery and verification of knowledge such as
Graduates outcomes, defining the relationship micro-credentials. We will explore new ways of
between core strategic priorities, enabling delivering what our stakeholders want in a manner
strategies and key initiatives. that meets their evolving expectations.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
We will aim to generate a core operating surplus
that allows us to invest in our talent, programs and Our Newcastle city campus
infrastructure into the future.
A financial scorecard will be aligned to our strategy
to monitor and evaluate our progress, ensuring key
financial measures are in place. We will manage
and evaluate the successful delivery of the portfolio
in partnership with divisions and faculties and will
continually monitor our strategic alignment by
prioritising our investments.
We will build on our Advancement Strategy to
establish a philanthropic mindset within the
University and align our advancement programs
to our strategic priorities. We will continue to
engage with our alumni communities and our
generous philanthropic supporters to build our
readiness to launch comprehensive alumni and
philanthropic campaigns.
We will improve business processes to deliver on
our strategic plan. We will take a collaborative,
problem-solving approach to identifying process
blocks and designing solutions that improve staff
and student experience, as well as service efficiency
and effectiveness. This will include consultation and
partnership across relevant stakeholder groups,
including students.
These include but are not limited to:
• administrative processes associated with Work
Integrated Learning, industry mobility, student
enquiries, admissions and enrolments, student
academic and wellbeing support, student
accommodation and research support
• consulting on options for reimagining
our campuses
• support for researchers through grant
development, project support and
commercialisation processes
• staff recruitment and retention processes
• digital solutions to support our activities
and engagement.
As a public institution entrusted with
MEASURING
stewardship of public and stakeholder
funds, we will monitor our performance
against a number of measures of success
SUCCESS
to ensure that we are delivering on both
the 'what' and 'how' of our mission.
Each of our strategic priorities throughout
this strategy has identified a series of
goals that denote what success looks like
for the University in 2025. We will develop
lead indicators for each of these measures,
and report on our progress regularly.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
ALIGNMENT WITH
NATIONAL AND GLOBAL
OBJECTIVES
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
INDIGENOUS HIGHER EDUCATION,
INNOVATION AND ENGAGEMENT
Better, Healthier Living
Next Generation Resources
ENGAGEMENT
PRIORITIES
Connected Communities
Growing Industries
LIFE-READY GRADUATES
ASIA PACIFIC FOCUS
REIMAGINING OUR CAMPUSES
INSPIRING PEOPLE
Excellence
Equity
OUR VALUES
Engagement
Sustainability
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
The University of Newcastle is committed to aligning our strategic priorities to the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). We are proud to be home to Australia's only United Nations Institute for Training
and Research (UNITAR) accredited International Training Centre for Authorities and Leaders (CIFAL) institute
and the only University in Australia to fly the United Nations flag. We will benchmark our strategic activity
against the 17 SDGs, providing a globally recognised framework to measure our impact. Our strategy is also
inspired by the Alice Springs (Mparntwe) Education Declaration, which sets a vision for a world-class education
system for all Australians that promotes equity and excellence, and creates successful lifelong learners who are
active and informed members of the community. We will support the achievement of the Declaration's Goals and
Commitments to Action through our University's activities.
INDIGENOUS HIGHER EDUCATION,
INNOVATION AND ENGAGEMENT
Better, Healthier Living
Next Generation Resources
ENGAGEMENT
PRIORITIES
Connected Communities
Growing Industries
LIFE-READY GRADUATES
ASIA PACIFIC FOCUS
REIMAGINING OUR CAMPUSES
INSPIRING PEOPLE
Excellence
Equity
OUR VALUES
Engagement
Sustainability
Strongly Aligned Aligned
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
PHASING OF
OUR STR ATEGY
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INITIATIVE
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Living Lab model
Multidisciplinary networks
ENGAGEMENT
PRIORITIES
Engagement pathways
Institutional alignment
Work Integrated Learning for all
Graduate attributes
LIFE-READY
GRADUATES
Celebrating excellence
Student-centred wellbeing
Asia Pacific partnerships
Globally engaged education
ASIA PACIFIC
FOCUS
Empowered and connected
Our Asia Pacific hubs: Sydney and Singapore
Reposition existing estate
New partners, new uses
Digital excellence
REIMAGINING
OUR CAMPUSES
Places to live, learn, work and play
Campus accessibility
Sustainable campuses
A high-performing institution
Building leadership and capability
INSPIRING
Outstanding talent
PEOPLE
A values-based culture
Healthy and safe workplace
Increased student participation and retention
Preferred employer
OUR INDIGENOUS
COMMITMENT
Leading Indigenous research
Leading reconciliation across our communities
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
DAEHA
GNIKOOL
STRATEGIC PLAN 2020-2025
The phasing of our strategy is reflective of our
estimated effort over time. It will be reviewed
annually to reflect new developments and the
latest prioritisation of our efforts.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INITIATIVE
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Living Lab model
Multidisciplinary networks
ENGAGEMENT
PRIORITIES
Engagement pathways
Institutional alignment
Work Integrated Learning for all
Graduate attributes
LIFE-READY
GRADUATES
Celebrating excellence
Student-centred wellbeing
Asia Pacific partnerships
Globally engaged education
ASIA PACIFIC
FOCUS
Empowered and connected
Our Asia Pacific hubs: Sydney and Singapore
Reposition existing estate
New partners, new uses
Digital excellence
REIMAGINING
OUR CAMPUSES
Places to live, learn, work and play
Campus accessibility
Sustainable campuses
A high-performing institution
Building leadership and capability
INSPIRING
Outstanding talent
PEOPLE
A values-based culture
Healthy and safe workplace
Increased student participation and retention
Preferred employer
OUR INDIGENOUS
COMMITMENT
Leading Indigenous research
Leading reconciliation across our communities
LOWER INTENSITY OF EFFORT SCALE UP/ TRANSITION MAXIMUM EFFORT
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEWCASTLE
NEWCASTLE.EDU.AU/STRATEGIC-PLAN
J90100
redivorP
SOCIRC
1012
9102
Thank you to the staff, students,
alumni and community
members who contributed to
the development of this plan.
Contact us: strategicplan@newcastle.edu.au