Skip to main content
THE UNIVERSITY
of
KANSAS
Admissions
myKU
Email
Canvas
Enroll & Pay
Jayhawk GPS
Info for
Transfers
Military affiliated students
High-achieving students
myKU
Email
Canvas
Enroll & Pay
Jayhawk GPS
Home
Information for
Transferring to the University of Kansas
Whether you’re completing a degree or pursuing new paths, you’ll find a community at KU that welcomes your experience and gives rise to real innovation.
Get started
Ready to apply? We often respond in less than a week to completed applications, which don’t require essays or final transcripts. If you want more information, join our mailing list or contact your admissions rep.
Apply
Apply
Request info
Request info
Find your rep
Find your rep
Costs, requirements, and opportunities
The decision to transfer comes with big questions: Can I get in? Will my credits transfer? Can I earn scholarships? Let’s break down the details.
Transfer students are assured admission with 24+ transferable credit hours at a GPA of 2.5 or higher from a regionally accredited community college, college, or university.
If you have earned under 24 transferable credit hours, you must also meet the freshman assured admission requirement. You will also need to provide a final, official high school transcript (or GED high school equivalency exam scores) with your graduation date, mailed from your high school or the state GED agency.
Resources
Freshman assured admission requirement
Transferring credits
Transfer scholarships
Tuition & costs
Next steps
Important Deadlines
Dec. 1
Spring semester scholarship deadline
Jan. 5
Final spring semester application deadline
Aug. 1
Fall semester scholarship deadline
Aug. 8
Final fall semester application deadline
Your transfer options
Hilltops, laptops — you could earn a KU education from just about anywhere. Each way to transfer offers its own share of opportunities and advantages.
Lawrence
Study at our flagship campus, where you’ll choose from over 200 fields of study and 400 degrees and certificates.
Learn More
Edwards Campus
Offering evening classes and over 30 degree programs, the Edwards Campus in Overland Park is a practical transfer choice.
Learn More
Online
You could earn your KU online degree from just about anywhere — and it could cost less than out-of-state tuition.
Learn More
Swipe to see more
Visiting KU
Virtual tours and online information sessions are convenient options for those who would like to connect from anywhere. We also encourage campus visits whenever possible and offer tailored sessions for transfer students throughout the year.
Virtual tours
Virtual tours
Transfer Fridays
Transfer Fridays
Next steps for admitted students
If you’ve been accepted to KU, you have a short list of things to do before your first day of classes. We’re here to help you transfer successfully.
See next steps