Taumata Teitei
Vision 2030 and Strategic Plan 2028
Vice-Chancellor's
Message
Whakatauki
Whāia te iti kahurangi, ki te tuohu koe
Me he maunga teitei
Seek the treasure which you value dearly
If you should bow your head, let it be to a lofty mountain
The University of Auckland is located in Aotearoa and positive impact in all we do. It does this for are the most human of values - openness,
New Zealand, a place of extraordinary beauty the immediate communities of the University tolerance, fairness, trustworthiness and respect
and diversity, where Māori are tangata whenua. of Auckland, for Aotearoa and the Pacific, as for each other and our ideas. Throughout the
From here, we reach out to the Pacific, to Asia well as the global social and economic systems uncertainty and changes ahead, we will live our
and the World. Our enduring relationship critical to intergenerational equity across the values and continue to reflect on them, as we,
with tangata whenua is based upon Te Tiriti o world. We promote a strategy that emphasises and our world, change.
Waitangi, an essential part of our distinctiveness, well-being, human value and the preservation The foci proposed in our new strategy will
and a key component of our new Vision 2030 and protection of our natural world. In short, our only be possible by working in ways that
and Strategic Plan 2028. strategy is for the world. respectfully challenge old boundaries and
I am pleased to commend to you this University Consequently, we will sharpen our focus, assumptions, that require different behaviours.
of Auckland Vision and Strategy for the next prioritising our education and research efforts We will be recognised by our explicit
decade 2021-2030, Taumata Teitei, which to improve insight and understanding of global collaboration with our students, staff, alumni
can be interpreted from te reo Māori as pursuing concerns and opportunities, taking informed and and partners to understand their needs,
excellence, despite uncertainty. It recognises positive action through ethical use of knowledge. aspirations and experiences. This collaboration
the exciting challenges posed by the concerns of We will do this across broad domains - will inform how we work, and our policies,
our age and is a contemporary statement of our geopolitical; environmental and resources; processes, systems and decision-making.
purpose, vision and values. justice, equality and democracy; health and Importantly, through our lived values we
Alongside our new Vision and Strategy, we well-being; technology and digitisation - and, will continue to demonstrate our belief in
are co-creating a framework titled Waipapa through these efforts, advance understanding sustainable, fair and equitable societies,
(based upon the Ngāti Whātua Ōrākei gifted of what it is to be human, curious, flawed, innovation-led economies, and to meeting our
name for the University, Waipapa Taumata ingenious and interconnected. responsibilities to Māori, Pacific and students of
Rau). A framework that will sustain us beyond To realise these aspirations, we favour all socio-economic backgrounds.
this 10-year Strategy, it elucidates ideas transdisciplinarity, working collaboratively
important to the University, including the through our teaching and research, respectful
principles of manaakitanga, kaitiakitanga and of the complex abilities and needs of the diverse
whanaungatanga. Located within an interactive communities that we serve. We co-create and
network of maunga (mountains) redolent of the disseminate knowledge within and beyond the
many mountain peaks of Auckland, this iterative academic, which is enabled through strong and
framework will act as a dialogue over successive meaningful engagement with students, staff and
years, supporting our actions, deliberations and our partners, using open and responsive novel
outcomes, so as to benefit our students, staff and work practices such as design-thinking, co-
key communities. design and co-production.
Our common commitment to ecologically Mobilising to achieve our purpose in a world in
sustainable systems, equitable and just society, flux is not without risk. To succeed, we must be
well-being for all, and a thriving economy based a strongly principled and values-led academic
upon innovation, are therefore to be understood community, holding ourselves and our partners to
through the lens of this framework. values that support academic freedom, curiosity,
Professor Dawn Freshwater
Taumata Teitei signals a strong commitment to research-driven knowledge, sustainability, impact Vice-Chancellor
excellence, sustainability, relevance, fairness and engagement. Paramount amongst these The University of Auckland
2 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
Our values
Our values are lived through our behaviours and
actions, with strong and enduring commitments
to open intellectual inquiry, collaboration,
creativity, and equity and diversity.
Purpose Respect and Integrity
We create globally transformative impacts • We respect and appreciate what makes people different, harnessing the power of
through our distinctive strengths in world- our diversity.
leading research, scholarship, teaching and
• We recognise the multiple perspectives of our community.
collaborative partnerships, inspired by our
unique position in Aotearoa New Zealand and • We understand that our actions influence intergenerational equality and act
the Asia-Pacific. accordingly in the service of equity and inclusion.
• We act with integrity, openness and honesty at all times.
• We take responsibility for our choices and actions, and trust that others will fulfil
Vision (2030) their responsibilities.
• We are values-led in our relationships, creating genuine opportunities for the
communities we serve to engage in ethical and responsible partnerships.
We will be internationally recognised for
• We embrace the generation and sharing of knowledge, supporting the freedom to
our unique contribution to fair, ethical and
express controversial opinions and ideas without retribution.
sustainable societies.
Excellence
Te Ao Māori
Principles
• As a world-class university, we will maximise our contributions to forging just and
sustainable societies in Aotearoa New Zealand and the Pacific.
We are committed to positively impacting • We are ambitious for the betterment of society and aspire to excellence in
society, and to the advancement and exploration everything we do.
of knowledge. We will do this in ways consistent • Together with our students, communities and international partners, we facilitate
with our emerging Waipapa framework. Our
solutions that shape and advance our future.
fundamental principles reflect our foundational
• In our role as a world-class university, we work to graduate the leaders of tomorrow.
relationship with tangata whenua and our
commitment to Te Tiriti. • We believe that excellence in teaching and research provides a means of
Manaakitanga - Caring for those around us in engendering transformation in the lives of many people.
the way we relate to each other.
Whanaungatanga - Recognising the importance
of kinship and lasting relationships. Service
Kaitiakitanga - Valuing stewardship and
guardianship and our relationship with the
natural world.
• An ethic of active service and civic responsibility underpins all engagements with
our communities.
• We engage with our communities in genuine partnerships to promote their
prosperity and help them to realise their aspirations.
• We apply our knowledge, skills and expertise derived from our engagement with
kaupapa Māori and international scholarship to the positive transformation of society.
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 3
Our Impact
Humanity is at a critical juncture. As a global We will strengthen our recognition as a participation is one aspect of realising just
civic institution, we have a significant role to global leader in sustainable and ethical and fair communities and creating additional
play as part of creating fundamental solutions practices through our education, research societal value. Such efforts will help ameliorate
to address unprecedented challenges during and engagement, and by our internal policies the current decline in trust of democracy and
a time of extreme change. As a university, we and practices. We recognise that indigenous consequential inequalities.
remain committed to the pursuit of excellence in practices may yet teach us important We will be known as a place where diversity and
the development, dissemination and impact of transferable lessons regarding sustainable dynamism of local and global communities are
knowledge. ecosystems and that this mātauranga may recognised, valued and improved through our
In respect to our unique positioning in one of be of value to us as we commit to this global education, research, engagement and in how
the world's most diverse cities in Aotearoa New sustainability imperative. we treat the world. We will remain critically
Zealand, and our deep connections to Pacific, cognisant of the value and values of other
Australasian and Asian neighbours, we enjoy knowledge systems including mātauranga Māori,
Improving health and well-
strategic regional and global alliances that serve and to working with citizen scientists.
to further our purpose and values. being for all
Committed to the collaborative development,
Innovating contemporary,
The health and well-being of individuals
wide sharing and application of knowledge for
positive and material impact on our world, we and communities vary across nations, distributed, secure
urban, rural and remote areas, and across
will selectively prioritise research, education and knowledge systems
physical, psychological and emotional
engagement activity. We will reimagine what we
manifestations. Health and well-being
do and embrace new areas of scholarship; loci
Opportunities abound for automated, intelligent
interventions are dependent on the human
of research concentration; new programmes of
and distributed systems to revolutionise society
sense of connectedness, demographics, disease
study in emerging disciplines and occupations;
and economies and transform the human
prevalence, political will for change, logistical
and changes in how we work with stakeholders
condition. New digital tools and systems
and economic feasibility; and, the existence
and partners.
challenge current conceptions of national
of relevant technologies. Unique indigenous
We will do this through a focus on our four boundaries, sovereignty, personal and group
approaches to well-being, such as hauora, which
interdependent priorities of sustainability, health identity, privacy, etiquette, security, democracy
encompass a holistic understanding of health,
and well-being, justice, and ethical innovation and the rule of law.
will facilitate creative ways of delivering and
and technology.
responding to health inequalities. Such transformations have impacts beyond
economic production, reaching into lifestyle,
Breakthroughs in technology and contemporary
Leading transition to practices (such as genomics, phenomics, workplace relationships and family formation.
Their adoption and application threaten to
telehealth), where available, are changing life
sustainable ecosystems
outstrip the capacity of humanity and its
expectancies and quality. The effectiveness,
systems to adapt. Our distinctive application
ubiquity and equitable availability of
Resource use and associated technologies have of whanaungatanga will ensure that we remain
preventative and remedial services depend upon
real effects - both positive and negative - for connected to our common human endeavours.
a balance of technical, political, economic and
our natural, social and economic systems.
ethical settings. We will embrace the confluence between human
Effects extend from the immediate to the long
practices and digital capabilities to enable
term, from the known to the uncertain, from We will be a global innovator in the discovery
the fair and ethical development, application
local to global, macro to micro. Public, political, and ethical and equitable application of
and distribution of innovations. This requires
professional and academic uncertainties affect technologies, public policy and delivery
our university to engage in wide-ranging and
the capacity of policy, economic, social and mechanisms that contribute to the sustainable
entrepreneurial responses.
technological adaptations, to replace or offset health and well-being of humanity.
We will forge enduring partnerships that inform
negative consequences.
and guide our progress towards becoming a
We will continue to be world-leading in Advancing just, cultured
Māori Data Sovereignty organisation. This will
extending the reach and significance of the
and engaged communities see transformations across our education,
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Earth
research and engagement practice and in how
systems, biodiversity, water, food, land, human
The capacity of individuals and organisations we work as an organisation.
economic systems and unplanned urbanisation
to meaningfully and fully engage in the lives
are under such pressure that we need to find a
of their communities has never been more
way towards sustainable prosperity.
important, yet recent experiences highlight
lessening confidence in traditional governance
structures. Understanding this, we recognise
that maximising individual and community
4 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
Education and Student Experience
Students who embark on a University of Through the curriculum, and through the As a result of our distinct educational
Auckland research-informed education join richness of experiences of University life, experience, University of Auckland students
an inclusive lifelong learning culture. They students will be highly connected to knowledges and graduates will be notable for their
will be active participants in an educational of place and conversant in mātauranga Māori, leadership and high level of engagement in the
environment that recognises and prioritises kaupapa Māori and Te Tiriti o Waitangi principles contemporary concerns of society.
their changing life demands and preferences, and accountabilities. They will possess an intimate and deep sense of
and privileges human connections. They University of Auckland students are engaged in cultural identity, social justice and civic duty and
will learn from each other and participate the design of their programmes, their learning sustainable practices, which will be demonstrable
in imaginative and innovative programmes experiences, the digital, social and physical in their actions and interactions. Our graduates
designed by leading researchers in their contexts in which they learn and the myriad of co- will stand apart from others in their readiness to
disciplines and engaging with their fellow curricular and extra-curricular opportunities that play leading roles in public debate and in matters
students in campus-based experiences. enhance student life, experience and learning. of relevance to our communities.
Our Education and Student
Experience Priorities
Accessible, equitable lifelong higher education opportunities.
Student-centric learning, co-curricular and extra-curricular cultures.
Education that is research-informed, transdisciplinary, relevant and with impact for the world.
Graduates who make the world better tomorrow than it is today.
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 5
Research and Innovation
Embracing its distinctive position and Acknowledging that deep disciplinary knowledge
commitment to Aotearoa, and the Pacific, the is a critical enabler of successful collaboration,
University of Auckland will advance excellent our researchers will be encouraged to work
research for the betterment of our world and its beyond disciplinary constructs to tackle
communities. Our unique diversity of world views, the complex questions of our age. Targeted
and multiple ways of knowing, enriches and international relationships will expand and
distinguishes our research locally and globally. enhance the scope, scale and quality of our
Our research will reflect and be cognisant of Te research, resulting in transformative impact,
Tiriti and will value mātauranga Māori as a way of and enhancing our reputation as global leaders
analysing and understanding our world. in signature research areas. Curiosity-driven
A spirit of innovative, creative and entrepreneurial research is a core strength of the University that
research has always characterised the University we will continue to champion. We will support a
of Auckland. We will build on this to become a diversity of scholarship and the multiple paths
global powerhouse for translational research, to impact, critical to engaging with our diverse
developing new commercial, social and creative communities.
enterprises. Our institutional culture will reflect We will nurture and sustain our research
empowered creativity and informed risk-taking, workforce providing tangible support for the
and we will instil an entrepreneurial mindset development of the next generation of scholars.
in our graduates. Integration of research and Our performance standards will respect the
discovery into our teaching and learning will diversity of research activity across our institution
attract and inspire our students to be bold, and be compatible with a world-class university
curious learners and will further inform and environment in which research careers thrive. This
enable our research endeavours. will include a focus on investing in and growing
We commit to being open and engaged, striving our Māori and Pacific research workforce.
to build strong, transparent and reciprocal
relationships with local and global communities.
Our research will be relevant and have a
positive impact on the prosperity, resilience,
environmental sustainability, and the well-
being of our society. This will be evidenced by
confidence in the University as a partner and an
independent and trusted critical voice.
Research and Innovation Priorities
World-class research inspired by our place in Aotearoa and the Pacific.
A global powerhouse of innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship.
Relevant, purposeful, impactful research for our communities.
Ambitious research confronting humanity's greatest challenges.
Nurturing, recruiting and retaining outstanding research talent.
A research ecosystem characterised by collaboration, agility, simplicity, engagement and empowerment.
6 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
Partnerships and
Engagement
Our engagement and partnerships build on our
commitment to Te Tiriti and tangata whenua.
The University's knowledge, expertise and
teaching are a taonga. Through partnerships,
we express this: we are accessible; we value our
students, alumni and donors; we are open and
committed to iwi, communities, organisations,
industry and international partners. With a
strong sense of duty, we contribute to central
and local government policy, and with our
partners we translate research into meaningful
outcomes for people.
The opening decades of the 21st century have
shaped Auckland City into one of the world's
most diverse cities. Its exponential growth
has laid bare issues of sustainability, equity
and social justice. Our unique, distinctive and
place-based perspectives make us a valued
partner when working with others to meet these
community and world challenges.
We take our benefits of this distinctive and
diverse engagement, infused by our values and
the Māori guiding principles of manaakitanga,
whanaungatanga and kaitiakitanga to the world
and our global partnerships. This makes us a
unique and highly valued partner of choice for
the world's leading organisations and industries.
Acting as a knowledge broker, we not only share
our insights, knowledge and understanding with
the world, we ensure that the best of what the
world offers is brought back to our Pacific shores
and applied in the interests of all.
Our Partnerships and
Engagement Priorities
Strengthen and deepen our relationship with
tangata whenua.
An ambitious and relevant partner that is
globally networked.
Deep engagement with diverse Aotearoa and
Asia-Pacific communities.
Enduring relationships with prospective
students, students, alumni and donors.
Diverse student body reflecting our
communities.
Recognised and valued by our communities
for the contributions we make towards a more
sustainable future for all.
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 7
Enabling our People and Culture
He aha te mea nui o te ao. He tangata, he tangata, he tangata
What is the most important thing in the world? It is people, it is people, it is people.
The University embraces its aspiration to develop, contribution to world-class research, scholarship
support, guide and empower its people to and teaching. We will create a distinctive people
succeed together - for the betterment of society. experience in which our people's wellbeing is
Our success will depend on reimaging how we vital and our place in Aotearoa New Zealand and
access, align, engage, develop, reward and the Pacific is celebrated. They will be adept at
ultimately lead the workforce of the future. broad and deep collaboration in transdisciplinary
Societal shifts in Aotearoa New Zealand, as well and cross-functional contexts, in and beyond
as automation and digitisation, are changing the University, with an enduring commitment to
the capabilities and mindsets required for the impact and sustainability.
University to thrive and prosper. We will continue to champion diversity, inclusion
To respond, the University of Auckland will and equity, ensuring all people feel valued and
develop an inclusive workforce that is diverse, respected and can contribute fully to the success
capable, innovative and flexible to fulfil our of the University.
academic aspirations and respond to the Our people and interactions with them will be
challenges of the future. We will be a place enabled by contemporary and innovative ways of
where te reo Māori can flourish and where working, favouring:
mātauranga Māori and Te Tiriti o Waitangi are
• A deep ethos of service to our students and
valued, fostered, protected and used responsibly
communities.
by us all. Activating our values, we will develop
• Our commitment to the principles of Te Tiriti o
a mana-enhancing culture that is outwardly
Waitangi.
focused and open, characterised by belonging,
• Effective collaboration and engagement with
equity, a commitment to wellbeing, and the
our communities and partners.
empowerment of staff to innovate and succeed.
• Dedication to co-design, co-development and
We will take a values and purpose-led approach,
design thinking in all we do.
recognising the need for aspirational inclusive
• Streamlined processes that support and enable
leadership and empowered teams, to build
our people.
insight, trust and confidence for change. The
• A bias for agile and informed change.
nurturing and development of a more diverse
• A focus on people's well-being and enriching
workforce, alongside the establishment of new
roles.
adaptive career pathways, will strengthen our
Priorities in Enabling
our People and Culture
Live our values and purpose.
Develop a future-ready workforce.
Build a high-performing, diverse, inclusive and equitable community.
Activate manaakitanga, whanaungatanga and kaitiakitanga across our People and Culture practices.
Aspirational and inclusive leadership.
8 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
Our Enabling Environment
Mana-enhancing stakeholder experiences will Kaitiakitanga will be evident in our approach community, professions, and industry on current
be the focus of how we develop and manage to sustainability and woven into everything we and transdisciplinary challenges will be facilitated
our facilities and services. These experiences do. We will realise this in close collaboration by well-crafted, richly integrated digital and
will be anchored in our distinctive physical with mana whenua and through open, inclusive physical spaces.
and digital spaces, responsive and accessible engagement with our many and varied partners. Our campuses and precincts will showcase
services, and our open and collaborative Manaakitanga will drive innovative human- our innovation, entrepreneurship, and
work practices that privilege the needs of our centred design to create mana-enhancing and commercialisation strengths and invite
students, staff and partners. performant services and practices for our people. community and industry interaction. The
Our decision making is strongly values-based, Open, transparent, and ethical governance and development of our Newmarket Campus will
founded upon accountability and integrity, and data-informed decision-making will foster a reflect these strengths wholeheartedly.
focused on delivering professional services high-trust culture and increase the University's We will create vibrant locations recognised as
that are ethical, equitable, excellent, and accountability, agility, and nimbleness. gateways to learning and teaching, research and
sustainable. These values will be evident in Everybody engaging with the University innovation, and partnership and engagement
our service interactions and in the experiences of Auckland's digital and physical spaces with the University. These distinctive spaces
supported by our physical, digital and social will experience a distinctive sense of place and the rich digital connections they have will
environments. We continually seek user that balances acknowledgement of history, deliver innovative and welcoming outreach,
feedback and sentiment which guides our heritage, and place with the vibrant evolution engagement, and extension activities with our
program of continual improvement. of our communities. Engaged and collaborative communities, particularly from our Tai Tokerau
meditations with students, academics, and Tai Tonga campuses.
Priorities for Our Enabling Environment
Create mana-enhancing experiences for our communities through effective, efficient, and valued operations and services.
Deliver a distinctive, capable, and flexible people-centred environment that celebrates our place in Aotearoa New Zealand and the Pacific.
Actively continue and measure progress towards overall sustainability and net zero carbon status.
Enable long-term operational sustainability and resilience through careful stewardship and planning and by enabling revenue growth.
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 9
Strategic Initiatives
1. Education and Student Experience
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: • Review offerings, scheduling, and delivery to improve access and Relevance and Impact
Accessible, equitable lifelong retention to accommodate broader student needs and life stages,
higher education opportunities including:
• improved pathways, timetabling, mode options, remote and
community-based provision;
• improved retention and progression for Māori students and
Pacific students;
• non-degree education opportunities for select needs.
Priority 2: • Develop a student-centric education model for physical, digital, Student Experience
Student-centric learning, co- formal and informal learning activities enriched by professional and
curricular and extra-curricular community co-curricular activities.
cultures
• Extend informal social, professional and academic engagement
between individuals, student cohorts, staff and the broader
university community.
• Review student representative systems to enhance the student
voice.
• Revise appointments, continuation and promotions processes to Capability Development
select for, develop and reward high-quality teaching for all student
cohorts.
• Develop cultural competencies for all teaching staff.
Priority 3: • Develop current and new offerings in our areas of transdisciplinary Relevance and Impact
Education that is research- focus for quality, viability, impact and strategic alignment.
informed, transdisciplinary,
• Provide credit-bearing and partnered transdisciplinary, research-
relevant and with impact for the
led, experiential, international and industry-based/Work Integrated
world
Learning experiences for all students.
• Develop programmes and student recruitment plans to rebalance
education activity around transdisciplinary priorities.
• With leaders in kaupapa Māori pedagogies and mātauranga Māori,
include te ao Māori in programmes, teaching and the student
experience, framed by Te Tiriti accountabilities.
• Build academic staff capability in collaborative practice,
transdisciplinary pedagogy, student engagement and success;
honouring Te Tiriti; working with Pacific communities.
• Improve support for selected pedagogical innovations and the
scholarship of teaching and learning.
10 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 4: • Review the University Graduate Profile to ensure that it is current, Relevance and Impact
Graduates who make the world 'fit-for-purpose' and gives clear expression to the full range of the
better tomorrow than it is today University's values and graduate capabilities.
Priorities 1-4: • Undertake a phased review of policy and process to support above Framework for Action
Educational policies and objectives ensuring:
processes supportive of strategy
• an annual cohesive executive-approved programme
development pipeline and student recruitment plan;
• student and staff centricity;
• simplicity and fitness-for-purpose;
• clear roles and responsibilities;
• transparent risk, decision making and resourcing frameworks.
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 11
2. Research and Innovation
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: • Identify and invest in targeted international research partnerships Relevance and Impact
World-class research inspired that support our transdisciplinary aspirations.
by our place in Aotearoa and the
• Deepen and strengthen relationships with Māori and Pacific
Pacific
communities.
• Grow Māori and Pacific scholarship in areas of transdisciplinary
priority.
Priority 2: • Boost knowledge mobilisation, research translation and Relevance and Impact
A global powerhouse of commercialisation.
innovation, creativity and
• Invest in university-industry collaboration in transdisciplinary
entrepreneurship
priority areas and where we have demonstrated global competitive
strength or potential.
• Identify innovative affiliation models (e.g. shared appointments,
co-investments, triple-helix partnerships with industry, community
organisations, government).
Priority 3: • Be a research partner of choice for industry, policymakers and Relevance and Impact
Relevant, purposeful, impactful community organisations.
research for our communities
• Review promotion and reward systems to appropriately recognise
the value of a range of research endeavours.
• Upskill and build capability of staff and students in research
impact, engagement and science communication.
Priority 4: • Focus investment to recognise our transdisciplinary priorities and Relevance and Impact
Ambitious research confronting existing areas of proven strength.
humanity's greatest challenges
• Foster collaboration and create opportunities for cross-discipline
collegiality through social or intellectual interaction.
Priority 5: • Strengthen, grow and diversify our research pipeline in Capability Development
Nurture, recruit and retain transdisciplinary priority areas.
outstanding research talent
• Invest in equity objectives and particularly the growth of the Māori
and Pacific research workforce.
• Identify and invest in academic leadership in transdisciplinary
priority areas.
• Provide outstanding researcher training and capability building in
areas such as Vision Mātauranga, research impact, leadership and
research integrity.
Priority 6: • Review policy, processes and decision-making frameworks for Framework for Action
A research ecosystem transparency and simplicity, and to inform executive decisions on
characterised by collaboration, research funding priorities.
agility, simplicity, engagement
• Invest in and strengthen shared infrastructure and resources to
and empowerment
enable cross-organisational collaboration.
• Adopt a framework to inform greater risk tolerance in our research.
• Reduce and simplify administrative overheads and processes and
enable agile ways of working.
12 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
3. Partnerships and Engagement
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: • Collaborate with tangata whenua to co-develop a framework with Relevance and Impact
Strengthen and deepen our an ethos of service built on Māori values, to support our mutual
relationship with tangata commitment to deep and ongoing partnership.
whenua
• Develop focussed workplans with mana whenua in Tāmaki
Makaurau and Te Tai Tokerau to achieve shared outcomes.
Priority 2: • Develop a values-led framework to identify, prioritise, resource and Relevance and Impact
An ambitious and relevant manage global and local partnerships that are strategically aligned,
partner that is globally diverse and ambitious, with a focus on transdisciplinary priority
networked areas that support research and student and staff mobility.
• Lead, sustain and deepen our global networks to enhance the
international outreach of our University, staff and students and
share the benefits with local communities.
• Develop policy, process, staff and capability to simplify
engagement with the University and facilitate access university
capability.
• Develop work plans with identified partners to achieve shared
outcomes with a focus on transdisciplinary policy areas.
Priority 3: • Identify and prioritise where University transdisciplinary excellence Relevance and Impact
Deep engagement with diverse is matched to community needs and develop work plans to achieve
Aotearoa and Asia-Pacific shared outcomes.
communities
• Realise our commitments to Tāmaki Makaurau, Te Tai Tokerau,
Pacific peoples here and in the Pacific, and our diverse
communities in Aotearoa through collaboratively developed
workplans.
Priority 4: • In collaboration with students, alumni and the DVCSE determine Relevance and Impact
Enduring relationships with relationship attributes for cohorts across their life stages with the
prospective students, students, University.
alumni and donors
• Design a programme of engagement for seamless, rich and
reciprocal relationships with individuals in their personas as
prospective student, current student, alumnus, parent, employer
and donor.
Priority 5: • Collaborate with students to refine our student value proposition. Relevance and Impact
Diverse student body reflecting
• Implement student recruitment activity to rebalance our student
our communities
cohorts in transdisciplinary priority areas as outlined in our
education, EFTS and budget plan.
Priority 6: • Review our organisational identity and engagement approach, Relevance and Impact
Recognised and valued by including communications, to ensure relevant stakeholders are
our communities for the informed about us, our concerns, transdisciplinary priority areas
contributions we make towards and the differences we make.
a more sustainable future for all
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 13
4. Enabling Environment
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: Guided by manaakitanga: Capability Development
Create mana-enhancing experiences • Deeply understand our diverse constituents and communities
for our communities through and evolve services and operations proactively to meet their
effective, efficient, and valued needs.
operations and services.
• Enable and develop our staff to ensure they have the
capabilities and are empowered to operate and improve the
services they offer.
• Improve student experiences with personalised services, a
holistic model for student support and wellbeing, and campus
improvements that create a welcoming vibrant environment.
Priority 2: Guided by whanaungatanga: Framework for Action
Deliver a distinctive, capable,and • Develop integrated physical and digital environments that
flexible people-centred foster valued and connected virtual and in-person experiences.
environment that celebrates our
place in Aotearoa New Zealand and • Create focused plans for Newmarket, Tai Tokerau, and Tai
the Pacific. Tonga that recognize and maximise the distinctive and specific
opportunities they each offer.
• Enable campus improvements through the Master Estate Plan.
Priority 3: Guided by kaitiakitanga: Framework for Action
Actively continue and measure • Guide the inclusion of Waipapa Toitū indigenising priorities in
progress towards overall Te Rautaki Tūāpapa, faculty, and service sustainability plans.
sustainability and net zero carbon
status. • Develop indigenous capabilities and cultural competencies in
decision-making, leadership and governance that ensure social
sustainability of Māori interests.
• Establish, publish, and track the Te Reo Language Plan
commitments.
• Achieve and sustain a net zero carbon status by 2030.
• Establish, publish, and track carbon accounting, resource
consumption, asset utilisation, and SDG measures.
• Develop and implement plans for ethical and sustainable
operations including:
• asset utilisation, particularly space;
• a framework for sustainable and ethical procurement.
Priority 4: Guided by kaitiakitanga: Framework for Action
Enable long-term operational • Deepen ethical data use to guide sound decision-making.
sustainability and resilience through
careful stewardship and planning • Inspire flexibility, responsiveness and innovation across
and by enabling revenue growth. Professional Services.
• Exploit emerging technologies to further operational
effectiveness and efficiencies.
• Enable revenue growth while controlling operational costs.
• Leverage assets and resources in new ways.
14 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 15
5. People and Culture
Priority Strategic Initiatives Category
Priority 1: Live our values and • Define and deploy our values in practice. Framework for Action
purpose
• Revise HR policy, practice and programmes to support and
empower staff and leadership to enact values.
• Provide training, development and support to enable staff to
work in cross-functional, open and collaborative ways.
Priority 2: Develop a future-ready • Undertake a detailed university-wide workforce planning Capability Development
workforce exercise to inform our current and needed staff profile,
expertise, work practices and behaviours across all academic
and professional areas.
• Revise academic and professional reward, recognition,
performance and development frameworks to align with
strategic aspirations.
• Co-create a University of Auckland 'people experience' that
responds to the needs and aspirations of current and future staff.
• Review HR policy, practice and programmes to ensure
supported and smooth workforce evolution to meet current
and emerging social, physical and digital modes of operation.
Priority 3: Build a high performing, • Improve data, insights and decision support to ensure Capability Development
diverse, inclusive and equitable continuous improvement of staff capability, performance,
community affiliation, diversity, inclusion and equity outcomes.
• Determine and craft changes to recruitment, career entry
pathways and mentoring initiatives aligned to the needs of
specific cohorts.
• Determine opportunities to maximise and showcase the
distinct professional, social and cultural contributions of staff
cohorts across all cultures and identities.
• Reassess our criteria for selection, promotion and rewards
to value service to our communities, collaboration,
transdisciplinarity and impact.
Priority 4: Activate manaakitanga, • In the context of the workforce planning exercise and in Capability Development
whanaungatanga, and kaitiakitanga collaboration with Māori community leadership and staff,
across our People and Culture develop signature programmes that facilitate an environment
practices that is mana-enhancing for Māori, promote an understanding
of our place in Aotearoa New Zealand, and enable all our
people to engage with Māori internally and externally.
• Develop targeted recruitment and career programmes,
sourcing from our students and iwi/community groups.
Priority 5: Aspirational and inclusive • Develop a values-based leadership and leadership training Framework for Action
leadership framework that:
• recognises and supports distributed leadership across
academic and professional areas;
• clearly articulates expectations and provides associated
development for current and emerging leaders;
• supports succession planning.
16 The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030
Measures of Success
The implementation of our strategy will be guided by a performance indicator
framework at institutional, portfolio, faculty and local levels.
The framework includes:
Student, staff and partner feedback
Recognition for excellence in nominated University areas of focus and impact
Demand from prospective students and staff, industry and partners
Breadth, depth and impact of partner relationships
Academic reputation
Recognition for sustainability
Achievement of agreed performance thresholds:
• Staff capability and capacity
• Student EFTS recruitment
• Student satisfaction and performance
• Student success, attraction, retention and employability
• Research earnings and impact
• Resource utilisation (carbon, energy, water, waste)
• Service and facility efficiency and effectiveness
• Financial performance
The University of Auckland Vision and Strategic Plan 2020-2030 17