BREAKING
BOUNDARIES
STRATEGY TO
20 30
AD ASTRA
TO THE STARS
UCD students, faculty This is not just a story of Ireland's first journey This is a story of UCD, and shows what we can
to the stars, it is a story of how UCD brought achieve when we break boundaries across and
and staff designed and
experts and learners together from across beyond our university to pursue a clear vision
built Ireland's first satellite, disciplines to pursue a big vision, and how our with knowledge, passion and dedication. Our
partnership with industry is now giving rise to university motto Ad Astra - to the stars - has
successfully launched a new space sector in Ireland. It is also a story never seemed more apt.
of the school children who worked with a UCD
in December 2023. Some
professor of creative writing to write All Ways
20,000 hours were spent Home, the poem now inscribed on the
orbiting satellite.
testing and problem-solving
ahead of EIRSAT-1's voyage
into space.
MAKING A
DIFFERENCE
University College Dublin is a university that The strategy reflects a dynamic and engaged
seeks to make a difference to the world around university that is global, inclusive and sustainable,
us. I experienced this first as a UCD engineering delivering positive transformation through
student in the 1980s, when I was a beneficiary mutually reinforcing research, educational and
of the university's drive to provide a world- engagement actions and a commitment to
class education well beyond the requirements excellence. It will guide us in supporting new
of our country at that time. The talent forged in skills formation, industrial competitiveness, and
UCD became a driving force in the remarkable the use of Artificial Intelligence and other digital
transformation of the Irish economy and society technologies. It will also support us to enhance
since that time. the sense of belonging and community across our
university and among our alumni, and to build
We must now plan UCD's response to the pride in what we achieve together.
challenges and opportunities of today.
That is the goal of this strategy. The period of this strategy will take us to the end
of 2029 and the start of the fourth decade of this
The ideas underpinning our strategy arose from highly disruptive century. Towards the end of this
extensive consultation across our university period, we will celebrate the 175th anniversary of
community and with external stakeholders, and the foundation of our university. By then, it will be
I am very grateful to all who shared their ideas clear how this strategy has supported us to build
through that process. on our great tradition to advance with ambition
our positive impact on Ireland, on the world and
These ideas, and the actions that will bring them on the lives of our students.
to life, are presented here in a strategy that
is distinctively and recognisably belonging to I look forward to working with all of the UCD
UCD, and focused on advancing our ambition community, and with our committed partners,
and reflecting our values through these to deliver on the ambition in this strategy.
fast-changing times.
Professor Orla Feely
President, University College Dublin
PAST PRESENT
Our legacy UCD today
UCD was founded in 1854, with St John Henry UCD is at the heart of Ireland's vibrant economy, culture
Newman as our founding Rector. We rapidly grew and society as the country's largest and most influential
in scale and impact, and UCD staff, students and university, with over 38,000 students from over 150
graduates were central to the events leading to Irish countries and over 300,000 alumni around the world.
independence and the foundation of the Irish State We are Ireland's global university, the largest English-
just over a century ago. speaking university in the European Union, and an
active partner in the Una Europa university alliance and
Since then, our university and our community have other major university networks.
had an unparalleled impact on the transformative
development of Ireland. Our graduates have achieved We are a leader in research and innovation across
extraordinary success around the world, from Olympic our broad range of disciplines. Our 133-hectare main
gold medals to the Nobel Prize, leading some of the Dublin campus is among the finest parkland campuses
largest companies in the world, leading in public life, in the world and a resource treasured by many. Our
and leading cultural and societal transformations. commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion has
been recognised through the Athena Swan Silver Award,
and we are ranked first in Ireland and 50th worldwide
for sustainability.
FUTURE
UCD in 2030 will be · a leader in knowledge generation, learning and action
across the sustainability agenda, with carbon emissions
· supporting an ever more diverse range of students reduced by 51% and on track for net zero by 2040.
to realise their potential through an enriched and
· Ireland's leading university in delivering impact through
empowering education.
partnership, and a trusted partner globally.
· an exemplar in supporting student experience,
· a source of insight and objectivity on issues of vital
wellbeing and sense of belonging.
importance to society.
· a preferred destination for outstanding faculty, staff
· visible and accessible as a steward
and students.
and a champion of Irish culture and heritage.
· a welcoming and exciting place for all in our
· trusted, responsible and financially robust.
community.
· delivering integrated supports and using data, AI and
· delivering groundbreaking research that has clear
other digital technologies to enhance all our activities.
impact at scale on the defining issues of our time,
including Artificial Intelligence (AI), One Health and · firmly established among the top 20 universities
Societal Transformations. in the EU.
· a leader in university innovation and entrepreneurship,
supporting Irish and European industrial
competitiveness.
VISION
UCD WILL BE RENOWNED AS A
DYNAMIC, ENGAGED UNIVERSITY AND
A TRANSFORMING FORCE IN IRELAND,
IN THE WIDER WORLD AND IN THE
LIVES OF OUR STUDENTS
MISSION:
TO CREATE KNOWLEDGE, TO EMPOWER LEARNING
AND TO ENGAGE WITH PARTNERS TO DRIVE IMPACT
FROM EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
VALUES
CELLENC
X E
N G
O A
I G
C E
N N
I T
I Y
T I
G I
R A
I E
C Y
O T
LLEGIALI
BREAKING
BOUNDARIES
20 30
STRATEGY
The UCD Strategy to 2030 is about breaking the boundaries of existing
knowledge in our research, scholarship and innovation to deliver
fundamental results on important questions.
It is about combining creatively across disciplines and working with
partners to drive impact and excellence in the education and research
that we deliver.
It is about growing access to our education for a more diverse
community of learners across the course of their lives, and engaging
nationally and globally with intent and agility.
UCD is Ireland's global university, an inclusive community and a
driver of positive action for sustainability, and these attributes
will be evident across our actions.
G L
OBALLY ENGAG
E D
Learning for
Life
n e
e s
ri e
p r c
x h
TRANSFORMING w
n i t
e LEARNING h
D i
C o
U n
F O S T E R
I r i s h R o o t
s ,
I M G A P G A I C N
G A D R V E
A S E N N A C O R
C A H T
I O N
a l
C a m p u s e
A I N A B I L
N G I t S
G l g i U
I N
a l
L U a c h y si c V I
O OneUCD
P h
R I
Our three central pillars, guiding us to To drive change in these three pillars, Across our behaviours and actions
break boundaries and deliver lasting, we will invest in and focus activity through we will demonstrate the following
meaningful impact: six cross-cutting initiatives: UCD attributes:
Transforming Learning Learning for Life Globally Engaged
Advancing Research & Innovation UCD Student Experience Fostering Inclusion
Engaging for Impact Research with Ambition Driving Sustainability
Irish Roots, Global Reach
OneUCD
Physical & Digital Campuses
OUR THREE PILLARS
TRANSFORMING ADVANCING RESEARCH
LEARNING AND INNOVATION
We will enhance our curriculum to identify and deliver We will draw on all of our strengths and our
the broader set of skills and attributes needed by our partnerships to create knowledge, cultivate talent, and
graduates to stand out in an increasingly complex achieve impact through our research and innovation.
world. We will expand access to our portfolio of We will work at scale across disciplines in the areas
outstanding programmes of education, recognising where that impact can be greatest. The boundaries
the diverse backgrounds of today's learners along the between the university and our stakeholders and
course of their lives and careers. We will prioritise the partners will be more porous, with ideas and talent
sense of belonging and community for all our students. flowing with ease. We will support our researchers with
We will enhance our physical and digital campuses in the joined-up services they need to deliver success.
an integrated manner to support these aims.
ENGAGING UCD will be most distinctive and ambitious
where all three of these pillars combine: where
FOR IMPACT
excellence in teaching and learning meets
excellence in research and innovation, both
of these fuelled by, and fuelling in turn, our
We will facilitate more effective exchange of people engagement with the major issues confronting
and ideas through ethical partnerships with research people and planet. One key example of this
institutions, industries, third-sector organisations and under this strategy will be our new AI and
policy-makers. We will be bolder in sharing our stories digital technologies institute, which will draw
through our communications, reinforcing confidence together our powerful and cross-cutting
and trust. We will deliver impact through engagement capacity in this domain in education, research
within Ireland, with our near neighbours in the UK and innovation, and engagement.
and EU, and globally.
OUR SIX STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
LEARNING UCD graduates will always be known for
their deep discipline knowledge, enriched
by research and grounded in rigour.
FOR LIFE
Building on this bedrock of excellence, we will
enhance our existing degree structures and create
new structures of programme delivery. We will
prepare our students to succeed in disruptive
times, and facilitate agility and access in our
education offerings across all levels and modes.
We will work to nurture the skills,
competencies, attributes and behaviours
that will set our graduates up for success.
Recognising the increased need for learning
opportunities at all life stages, we will encourage
and welcome a broader range of students,
supporting them with flexible and technology-
enabled learning structures and environments.
Through enhanced synergies with our research,
and with global and industry partners, our
students will grow their awareness of and
readiness for a world of opportunities.
Through the excellence of our
education, we will attract and
empower an increasingly diverse
community of learners to fulfil
their potential and advance our
society through disruptive times.
We will:
· provide our students with structured
opportunities to develop their knowledge
and skills in areas such as AI and digital skills,
innovation, sustainability, leadership,
well-being, and languages.
· support our students to be reflective
practitioners with strong transversal
skills, through enhanced opportunities for
experiential learning, work-integrated learning
and global engagement.
· grow the diversity and flexibility of our portfolio
of learning options, supporting our ambition
to bring the excellence and opportunity of the
UCD learning experience to learners across
their life stages.
· grow our development programmes and career
supports for graduate researchers and for
postdoctoral researchers, enhancing the sense
of belonging and community for these cohorts,
and creating new opportunities for
knowledge-sharing and interdisciplinary
engagement.
· reform our curriculum, timetabling, assessment
modes and credit weightings to optimise
teaching and learning across all modes and all
levels.
· integrate and build on our development
supports for faculty and staff, and grow our
Breaking the code: Combining decades of pioneering work in machine learning,
capacity as an organisation that analyses,
data science and digital technologies with a broad discipline base, UCD can
reflects and learns.
drive advances in AI and technology research and learning in important areas.
Our learning programmes in digital policy consider these advances in the
context of our wellbeing as a society, supporting our students to consider the
ethical, political, legal and societal implications of AI and new technologies
and to apply this understanding as technologies and society evolve.
OUR SIX STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
UCD STUDENT A university experience is about more
than a programme of study - it is about
personal development within a vibrant
and supportive community.
EXPERIENCE
A focus of this strategy will be optimising the
experience, wellbeing and sense of belonging
of UCD students across all modes of learning.
Through experiences within and beyond the
classroom, we will support an increasingly diverse
student community to flourish. This will be
supported by an improved faculty-student ratio.
As Ireland's global university, we will deliver
a tailored UCD student experience to
our students outside Ireland, and a global
experience to our students here in Dublin.
Student partnership is central to how we
deliver an experience that empowers our
students in their growth and goals, and in
their personal development as citizens who
give back to their community and society.
We will continue to build the diversity of
our student population, further deepening
the University for All initiative, widening
participation of under-represented groups in
learning at UCD and ensuring the supports
are in place to enable each student to thrive.
In this way, we will give life to our motto
Cothrom na Féinne, which speaks to
our commitment to fairness.
The UCD student experience
will be distinctive and
transformational.
We will:
· establish an Office of Student Experience and
Wellbeing to enhance the initiatives, services
and supports that we provide to our students.
· prioritise the delivery of high-quality
accessible and inclusive spaces, services
and programmes that build community and
enhance the student experience. These will
include a reimagined library, sports and social
facilities, accommodation, food offerings, public
transport and digital campus.
· support an increasingly diverse community of
students to feel a sense of belonging at UCD,
including through a wide range of opportunities
in sports, societies, volunteering and student
representation.
· improve our faculty-student ratio.
· deepen our global collaborations to advance
the intercultural experience and competencies
of UCD students, and to develop their ambition
and ability to make a contribution to the world.
· advance the implementation of universal design
as a core principle to support inclusive learning
and campus development.
· partner actively with our students to
understand and respond to their priorities,
and to develop a shared sense of responsibility
towards our university and our society.
Breaking social boundaries: Over a third of UCD's incoming
undergraduates are from underrepresented groups. Our leadership in
universal design provides a framework that benefits all our students
and fosters an inclusive educational environment by promoting access
and inclusion across classrooms, facilities and student supports.
OUR SIX STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
RESEARCH Research and innovation at UCD draw on the
breadth and depth of our expertise to deliver
knowledge and solutions that matter. From
advancing sustainability and interpreting
WITH AMBITION
cultural heritage, to transforming healthcare and
designing our digital world, our researchers are
leading the way in fields that shape the future.
Through our Strategy to 2030, we will support
UCD researchers to combine their expertise
across disciplines to explore new frontiers of
knowledge and to build at scale in areas where
UCD can deliver the most significant impact.
UCD will be an exemplar of what can be
achieved through deep and diverse collaboration
nationally and globally, convening clusters
for impact, with a continuous flow of ideas,
knowledge and expertise between partners.
Our thought leadership will derive from
the voices of our academics based on their
research and scholarship, not through taking
institutional positions, and we will always
respect and uphold academic freedom.
By collaborating with ambition, and
delivering world-class research and
innovation grounded in rigour and
integrity, UCD will be a dynamic
research environment where people
thrive, bold ideas are realised, and
impact is delivered for the benefit of
society, economy and environment.
We will:
· establish an institute for AI and digital
technologies research, education, ethics and
policy, bringing together the diverse and
growing interdisciplinary and cross-sector
AI and digital technologies research and
innovation community at UCD to deliver
significant impact.
· grow our capacity to inform public policy
through our research.
· support existing large-scale cross-cutting
research areas of excellence and impact, such
as One Health and Sustainability, to grow
with ambition, and identify and support key
emerging areas.
· embed innovation in all its forms throughout
our research and education and develop
innovation across our campus.
· improve the researcher experience through an
integrated service that is researcher-centred
and reduces research bureaucracy.
· identify the critical infrastructures, facilities
and digital technologies needed to support
our research, seek the resources to support
them, and ensure that they are integrated and
accessible.
· attract outstanding researchers and faculty
members, including through our Ad Astra
fellowship programme, and support them to
realise their ambitions at UCD. Breaking the mould: UCD is a leader for patent applications,
spin-outs and research collaborations with industry. Equal1, a
· advance best practice in our research culture,
UCD spin-out and Ireland's first quantum computing company, has
underpinned by academic freedom.
developed the world's first hybrid quantum classical computing chip.
The chip unlocks decades of progress to power our AI-enabled world
whilst potentially reducing data centre energy usage 20-fold.
OUR SIX STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
IRISH ROOTS UCD has always been a university that makes a
difference. We have had an unparalleled impact on
the development of Ireland and our impact is felt
today around the world.
GLOBAL REACH
Throughout the period of this strategy, UCD will
build our position as a clear and valued strategic
asset for Ireland and for Dublin, supporting the next
phase of economic and societal development for
our country and city, and championing our national
culture, heritage and language.
We will grow our role as Ireland's global university,
bringing the best of Ireland to the world and the
best of the world to Ireland, expanding our strategic
global partnerships.
We will build our profile and our reputation
nationally and globally as an outstanding university
and a trusted partner. By conveying with conviction
the impact of our work, we will inspire enhanced
support for our university and our mission.
Our alumni will feel an enhanced connection to
UCD and will be as proud of our university as we
are of them.
Through our active engagement
nationally and globally, we will
build confidence in and support
for UCD's capacity to address the
opportunities and challenges of
today and to anticipate those of
tomorrow.
We will:
· grow our partnerships nationally and globally
with organisations that share our ambition and
values, focusing on partnerships of scale and
equality that enhance teaching and learning
as well as research and innovation, and have a
clear and measurable pathway to impact.
· make it easier for partners to engage with us,
and improve internal co-ordination of our wide-
ranging partnerships
· expand our focus on telling our stories and
building support for our university, integrating
our marketing and communications capacity
to project a cohesive and authentic external
message.
· build our engagement across the island
of Ireland, and with the UK and EU, and
implement our four regional strategies
leveraging the support of UCD's Global Centres
in New York, Beijing, Delhi, Dubai and Kuala
Lumpur.
· expand access to our outstanding cultural
and heritage collections while building on
our cultural connections nationally and
internationally with activities throughout our
university that celebrate culture and creativity.
· enhance the prominence of the Irish language
in every part of our university.
· build a lasting relationship with alumni
that supports and celebrates their success,
delivering value to them and to the university. Breaking barriers in cultural heritage: UCD plays a vital role in securing
Irish heritage, curating material of both national and global significance.
From political papers and literary archives to the National Folklore Collection
(part of the UNESCO Memory of the World register), our extraordinary
collections are a resource for scholars and the wider community.
OUR SIX STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
ONE UCD UCD's success will be achieved through our
people. We will promote a vibrant, inclusive
and ambitious culture that is based on our
values and is shared across the organisation.
UCD will be known as a highly inclusive
community and a great place to work, and we
will build a sense of belonging for all in UCD.
We will improve the integration of our supports
and our planning under this strategy, with
the experience of the user, not organisational
structures, driving our services. We will reduce
bureaucracy and expand our use of digital
technologies to ensure that our employees' time and
talents can be engaged in the most effective way,
and that our students, faculty, staff and partners
experience a service that meets their needs.
We will grow our diverse revenue base to support
our ambitions and will manage our finances with
care, aligning our resources to our priorities and
values. We will effectively advocate for necessary
government funding, and grow our philanthropic
engagement and contributions. We will plan
holistically for growth, increasing student numbers
in key areas that align with need and resourcing.
As an inclusive community and
an integrated organisation,
UCD will be a place where
potential is realised.
We will:
· enhance supports across the whole life
cycle from student recruitment to alumni
engagement, and from hiring to retirement for
our employees, to create a sense of perpetual
welcome and belonging at UCD for our whole
community.
· strengthen coordination of key services and
supports to staff, students and partners
to improve our operational efficiency and
effectiveness, and add value to our activities.
· implement a new approach to integrated
planning that ensures this strategy is
implemented through action plans across the
university. We will identify key measures of
progress and report on these, bringing visibility
to what we do and how we do it.
· work with UCD Foundation to significantly
increase philanthropic giving to our university.
· launch an integrated investment plan to deliver
the strategy.
· develop our capability for transformational
change at institutional, team and individual
levels.
· establish processes through which our
community can provide feedback on the
implementation of this strategy and help to
shape our university.
Breaking boundaries for health: UCD's leading research and education
in medicine, veterinary science, agriculture, and sustainability tackle the
challenge of healthy living in a healthy world. As a WHO collaborating
centre, UCD One Health addresses global health issues by recognising the
interconnectedness of humans, animals, plants, and the environment.
OUR SIX STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
PHYSICAL Our campuses in Belfield, Blackrock and Lyons
Farm, and our global campuses, are great
assets to UCD and the communities that we
serve. We will continue to enhance them
AND DIGITAL
so that they are exemplars for best practice
in how universities use their spaces.
Over the course of the strategy, we will develop a
CAMPUSES
new plan for our physical campuses that maximises
the use of existing spaces to meet the needs of
the university while facilitating new developments,
including consideration of our partnerships
with existing and new external stakeholders.
Our digital campus is an essential resource
underpinning the experience of all in UCD,
and the demands on this will change further
through actions in this strategy. We will offer
an enterprise architecture that empowers
us to deliver on our ambitions in learning,
research, engagement and service delivery.
UCD will be a thought and action leader of
transformational change for sustainability, and
this will be as evident on our campuses as it is in
our education and our research and innovation.
As a visible leader in sustainability,
UCD will be a net zero
organisation by 2040, contributing
to conserving and restoring
biodiversity, and working to
reduce the impacts of climate
change for ourselves and others.
We will:
· successfully complete major capital
developments in the Centre for Future
Learning, Science Phase 3, student residences,
sports and leisure amenities, Lyons Farm, the
James Joyce Library, and the Newman Building,
together delivering state-of-the-art space for
learning, research and the student experience.
· enhance our overseas campuses so that
they reflect the experience in Ireland.
· develop an integrated campus plan
to 2040 that incorporates its natural,
built and digital aspects.
· develop our outstanding physical campuses
in a manner that sets new standards and
enhances the experience of all in our
community, delivering and activating new
builds, and renewing existing stock.
· set and implement a clear enterprise
architecture roadmap to ensure that our
digital technologies support our ambitions in
learning, research and innovation, and services.
· cultivate our campuses as exemplars
of, and laboratories for, sustainability,
biodiversity and regeneration, advancing
our education and research in doing so.
· develop and implement an action plan
to reduce our carbon emissions by 51%
from baseline by 2030, and place us on Breaking ground: Leading the way in agrifood innovation and research,
a path to net zero carbon by 2040. Ireland can offer solutions that tackle the era-defining challenge of a just
transition. UCD experts are spearheading research to transform food systems
and ensure affordable, nutritious food for a healthy life. At our research
and teaching farm at Lyons in Co Dublin, we combine the development of
new technologies with on-the-ground solutions and experiential learning to
demonstrate how transformations can be achieved.
COTHROM NA FÉINNE
AD ASTRA
Breaking Boundaries, UCD Strategy to 2030, has been formed by the ideas
of the UCD community and our valued partners. It reflects our university's
great tradition of making a difference to Ireland, to the world, and to the lives
of our students, and imagines all that we can now achieve as we build on that
tradition. As we move forward with the implementation of the strategy, we
hold to our values and to our two mottoes:
Cothrom na Féinne | Ad Astra