Pae Tata
Strategic Plan to 2030
PAE TATA 3
Artwork in the University of Otago
Clocktower foyer, title 'Matiti ki
te ao, Uruao ki ruka' by Ephraim
Russell, a sculptural work depicting
the Southern Cross.
PAE TATA 4
Contents
2 Introductory message
3 The case for change
7 Plan on a page
8 We have a vision for the future
10 As a strong Te Tiriti partner
12 Underpinned by our commitment to transforming lives and nurturing the
environment in Aotearoa and the Pacific
14 Achieved through outcomes in five domains
16 Provide compelling and viable educational offerings that deliver excellent student
outcomes and experiences
23 Organise and focus research and innovation efforts to deliver high-quality,
impactful research
28 Support our people to achieve their best
34 Whakamana i Te Tiriti o Waitangi - strengthen our capability, capacity, and culture
to honour Whakamana Te Tiriti o Waitangi
41 Become a more global and connected university
46 Supported by a contemporary, effective, efficient and responsive University
48 Deliver value to the University and community through the unique character and
purpose of our places
52 Ensure our processes and structures enable us to work effectively
56 Transform our digital environment to create value for students and staff
Introductory message
Vision 2040 sets our aspiration for who we want to be: Our people and knowledge
transforming lives, connecting communities, and nurturing the environment in Otago,
Te Waipounamu, Aotearoa, the Pacific, and the world.
This Strategic Plan defines what we will do from now until 2030 as we work to become
a globally leading university that delivers outstanding teaching, transformative student
experiences, excellence in research, and has a positive impact on our communities and
the world.
Our journey towards Vision 2040, is guided by this whakataukī1 that has its roots in
Polynesian voyaging.
Ko te pae tawhiti, whāia kia tata
Ko te pae tata, whakamaua kia tina.
Seek distant horizons and draw them near,
Pursue and grasp the near horizon.
This whakataukī speaks to the boldness of spirit that characterises the University. Our voyage
is beyond the visible horizon. It demands vision, planning, courage and conviction.
Vision 2040 sets out our pae tawhiti (distant horizon), and this Strategic Plan defines our pae
tata (near horizon). We have to hold this ambitious near horizon in our minds and the University
must become a stronger version of itself to navigate the stormy seas ahead and reach our pae
tawhiti of Vision 2040.
Members of our community will be aware of the challenges we face. While we continue to
deliver quality teaching, our research performance is slipping, we tend to be inwardly-focused
in a globalising sector, and we are under significant financial pressure.
We must alter course to embrace change and the opportunities it brings. Change is necessary
so we can remain relevant and impactful in a rapidly changing world. It will involve making
difficult decisions about where we focus our limited resources, and some things we do now we
will need to discontinue.
Throughout, the University must face change with courage, compassion, and careful
consideration. Our motto - Sapere Aude (Dare to be Wise) - captures the spirit with which we
need to approach our future.
1 A whakataukī is a proverb.
PAE TATA 2
The case for change
The University has been a renowned place of learning and discovery for more than 150 years.
We must strive to become an even more successful, globally influential university, and embrace our
role as Te Tiriti partners. We must navigate external pressures and respond to expectations from
our students, our staff, our community, mana whenua, University partners and our government.
We can learn from how other universities across the world have responded to similar challenges.
PAE TATA 3
We must change the way we teach to ensure we meet
expectations and become sustainable
Successful universities balance offering enough papers to provide choice, with maintaining
clear pathways so students are not overwhelmed. This balance enhances the student
experience, can help grow enrolments, and delivers improved efficiency that enables
reinvestment in teaching and research.
We have an outstanding reputation for teaching excellence and achieve nation-leading results
in teaching, learning and student satisfaction. However, our course offerings are falling out of
step with students' emerging needs and our need for financial sustainability. Our broad offering
and complex programme structures can cause a paradox of choice for students, who may
find it harder to identify and sequence study options; it also adds complexity to our course
administration. Many of our papers cost more to deliver than they earn: at present, one quarter
of our papers have fewer than fifteen enrolments, and these papers tend to run at a loss.
We need to efficiently operate our large papers to offset strategically selected smaller papers.
Our overall course offerings must be more focused and aligned with strategic priorities and
what students want, to deliver transformative, excellent teaching and learning experiences,
while also remaining financially stable.
Successful universities are using digital learning effectively and innovatively to meet the
needs of different student cohorts as demand for flexible learning grows.
We responded rapidly and successfully to COVID-19 by moving temporarily to online delivery,
but best practice in digital learning goes far beyond delivering face-to-face teaching online.
We have areas of excellent distance delivery, but the quality of many of our students' digital
learning experiences lags behind their on-campus experiences and does not meet current or
emerging student expectations.
Campus-based and residential undergraduate student experiences will remain fundamental
to our identity. However, we must develop our use of blended learning, and targeted fully
online offerings to meet students' expectations locally and across the world. Blended learning
means that our in-classroom activities are focused on interactive learning, delivered flexibly
for students who are increasingly living and working in a digital world. Fully online delivery,
when targeted appropriately, can meet the lifelong learning needs of our alumni and working
professionals, and complement our on-campus experience for other cohorts.
PAE TATA 4
We can focus our research effort to increase impact and
enhance research performance
Successful universities focus their research efforts, to achieve greater depth in a smaller
number of areas. This enables them to achieve critical mass and greater impact.
We have a proud history of research and scholarship, and a strong reputation for our research
in Aotearoa New Zealand. However, in recent years our relative research performance has
weakened, and our share of research funds is decreasing. Our global reputation for research,
as measured by global rankings, has slipped. These rankings are crucial to securing high-value
research partnerships, and attracting international students and researchers, who in turn help
provide the resources needed to have a greater impact on Aotearoa New Zealand and
local communities.
Historically, our research activity has largely been guided by individual, school, and divisional
priorities rather than by an overarching university focus. We need to become more focused,
disciplined and collaborative.
A more globalised university will enhance student
experiences, increase research collaboration and allow
the University to take its place in the Pacific and the
world
Successful universities increase student and staff mobility, enriching their institutions'
cultural life, increasing connectedness, and building their global reputation while creating
revenue opportunities.
Partnerships are critical to strengthening our global presence and influence. A strategic and
focussed approach to partnerships will create new opportunities for research collaborations,
and enhance our research impact nationally, regionally and globally.
International students made up just 13.5 per cent of our student cohort in 2019 and our
growth in international students pre-COVID was much slower than at most other universities.
International students are vital to our cultural and intellectual success, encouraging increased
knowledge exchange, greater cultural literacy, and stronger global linkages. In the current
funding environment, increasing international student enrolments is critical to our ability to
invest in our education and research. We must work together to support international students'
growth and success as part of the University community
PAE TATA 5
Our financial situation must change to enable us to
reinvest in teaching, research, and impact
Successful universities are financially disciplined, managing costs and growing
alternative forms of revenue. This provides the flexibility to respond to challenging
circumstances, pursue strategic priorities, and deliver on their core mission of
research, teaching, and service.
Over the past decade, costs have increased much faster than government funding and income
from other sources. For a range of reasons, we need to spend more on maintaining our
buildings and providing new facilities. We have more staff relative to students than most New
Zealand universities. Given that significant government funding increases are highly unlikely,
we need to make a sustained effort to control our costs and to grow revenue from non-
government sources. A financially sustainable operating model is essential for reinvestment
into our ambitious change agenda needed to create the highest quality student experiences
and produce impactful research.
We must improve our processes, structures, and
systems to deliver efficient, effective, and responsive
services for our students and staff
Successful universities are learning from other sectors that efficiently deliver
organisation-wide services. Seamless student and staff experiences are created
through service hubs focussed on advisory work, with transactional effort reduced
through process-step automation and effective digital systems.
Despite the ongoing hard work of our professional staff, the current structural complexity
of our organisation and the way we deliver services significantly affects our ability to work
effectively. Too many of our processes are inefficient, vary across the University or rely
on unevenly distributed institutional knowledge. This means our staff - both academic
and professional - spend too much time completing transactional tasks, with poor user
experiences and inadequate staff role satisfaction.
Significant work is needed to simplify our processes and reduce the number of people
involved in each process. This must be matched by investment to replace outdated digital
systems, so that our systems better support efficient operations. Increasing the efficiency and
effectiveness of the services we deliver will improve student and staff satisfaction and support
us to better focus on our education and research.
PAE TATA 6
Pae Tata -
Strategic Plan 2030
We have a vision for the … achieved through outcomes in five domains …
future …
Vision 2040: Streamline our educational offerings. Better focus our research
efforts into areas of strength.
Our people and knowledge transforming Grow our student cohort and
lives, connecting communities, and increase its diversity. Communicate our research impact with local,
nurturing the environment in Otago, Te Redefine our graduate attributes. regional and global communities.
Waipounamu, Aotearoa, the Pacific, and
the world. Meet student needs with best Align our research partnerships so
practice pedagogy. that each one delivers strategic value.
… as a strong Te Tiriti partner Achieve equity in student Ensure our processes, resource
… participation and allocation and staff expectations
achievement. efficiently support
Together with mana whenua, we explore Provide Organise our areas of
what being a Te Tiriti led university research focus
means in each of our campus contexts compelling and focus
and jointly develop our capability to
and viable research
operate effectively as Te Tiriti partners.
As a University, we will work to educational and
strengthen our capability, capacity and
culture to honour and give effect to Te offerings innovation
Tiriti o Waitangi across all areas of the
University.
… underpinned by our
commitment to transforming Support
lives and nurturing the our people
environment in Aotearoa and
to achieve
the Pacific …
their best
Our teaching, research, partnerships,
engagement, and behaviour, alongside
the Tī Kōuka Sustainability Strategic
Framework 2030 and Pacific Strategic
Framework 2030, demonstrate our Whakamana Become a
commitment.
i Te Tiriti o more global and
Waitangi connected
University
Support our
… supported by a
Te Tiriti journey and
contemporary, effective, mana whenua partnership.
efficient and responsive Support all our staff to enagage Substantially grow our
with and embed te ao Māori. international student cohort.
university...
Provide an environment in which Maximise the impact of strategically
• Deliver value to the university and tauira Māori can succeed as Māori. aligned global partnerships.
community through the unique
Develop innovative ways for students to engage Create transformative international
character and purpose of our physical
and learn with and in te ao Māori. experiences for our students.
places.
• Ensure our processes and structures Grow our research that engages with te ao Māori. Deepen our relationship with
enable us to work effectively and Protect taonga Māori. alumni and partners.
efficiently.
• Transform our digital spaces to create
value for students and staff.
Enhance a culture of working together and supporting diversity.
Ensure students thrive through the unique Otago experience.
Support our staff to succeed and grow.
Build the capability of our leaders at all levels.
PAE TATA 7
We have a vision for the future
PAE TATA 8
Vision 2040 is our pae tawhiti (distant horizon) and will
guide us into the future
Vision 2040 is a collective expression of who we want to be as an institution, developed
through extensive engagement. We aspire to be a globally influential, strongly connected and
socially accountable institution that produces research and teaching of the highest quality,
and consistently engages with the issues that face our society and humanity. We will continue
to be a kāinga waewae1 for generations of students, staff, and alumni as we have been for
generations past. We will weave a new network of partnerships working under the korowai2 of
Te Tiriti o Waitangi together with our Scottish heritage to enrich our intellectual traditions and
meet the future needs of Aotearoa.
Vision / Ko te Aronga
Our people and knowledge transforming lives, connecting communities, and nurturing the
environment in Otago, Te Waipounamu, Aotearoa, the Pacific, and the world.
Mission / Ko te Uaratanga
The University of Otago exists to create, advance, share, promote, preserve, and apply
knowledge. Committed to partnership with mana whenua and upholding Whakamana i Te
Tiriti o Waitangi, we undertake outstanding research and research-informed teaching, enable
transformative learning and student experiences, and engage in meaningful service to society
with a dedication to excellence, innovation, and positive impact.
The Strategic Plan 2030 is our pae tata (near horizon) and
lays out the steps we will take to navigate towards our
Vision 2040 by becoming a stronger version of ourselves
We seek a globally leading role as a university in and of Otago, Te Waipounamu, Aotearoa and the
Pacific that delivers the best for our student and creates impact for our communities. Our people
are of utmost importance in reaching this pae tata. We aim to be a place that welcomes and
values all students and staff, supporting them to achieve and work at their best.
The University needs to evolve to meet expectations from our students, staff, mana whenua,
our alumni, and other key stakeholders that we be a contemporary and financially sustainable
institution. We need to evolve both to meet these expectations and to secure our future as a
university delivering high-quality teaching and research, and creating positive impact for society.
The purpose of the Strategic Plan is to define the focus of our activity out to 2030 and identify
the associated measures of success. By achieving success against this Strategic Plan, we will be
moving intentionally towards the aspirations expressed in Vision 2040.
1 A stamping ground or somewhere where one spends much of their time.
2 A cloak ornamented with black twisted tags or thrums worn as a mantle of honour, symbolic of leadership and caring
for one's people.
PAE TATA 9
As a strong Te Tiriti partner
PAE TATA 10
We recognise that becoming a "Te Tiriti-led" university as outlined in Vision 2040 is a bold
ambition requiring significant effort, resourcing, and change.
The key step in this journey is committing to build stronger and deeper partnerships with mana
whenua. Together with mana whenua, we will define what being a Te Tiriti-led university means
in each of our campus contexts and jointly develop our capability to operate effectively as Te
Tiriti partners. As a university, we will work to strengthen our capability, capacity and culture to
honour and give effect to Te Tiriti o Waitangi across all areas of the University.
Central to this is supporting our partnership with Ngāi Tahu as the University's principal Tiriti
partner as mana whenua within their takiwā1 of Te Waipounamu. Alongside this partnership,
we will foster partnerships with mana whenua in other locations where the University has a
physical presence, and other iwi and iwi groups as appropriate.
Our commitment includes working with mana whenua to understand how the leadership and
governance of the University will evolve to support partnership and achieve our ambition of
becoming a Te Tiriti-led university. The way we achieve this goal will be the subject of ongoing
discussion and exploration between Ngāi Tahu and the Council and Senior Leadership of the
University, before being applied at the Divisional levels.
Our journey to Te Tiriti partnership will require shifts in the ways we teach, learn, research,
engage and work as we bring together te ao Māori2 and the traditional university world in a way
that both honours the ideals of our Scottish heritage and upholds tino rangatiratanga3.
Within this plan, the domain Whakamana i Te Tiriti o Waitangi - Strengthen our capability,
capacity, and culture to honour Te Tiriti o Waitangi outlines the strategic commitments
and actions that we will take to support our journey to 2030. This domain draws on and is
aligned with the University's Māori Strategic Framework4, which will be integrated within the
University's strategic planning environment, forming part of a unified work plan.
Our commitment to becoming a "Te Tiriti-led University" reflects both our status as a
landowner with a longstanding relationship with mana whenua in their takiwā, and our role
as part of an education system that "honours Te Tiriti o Waitangi and supports Māori-Crown
relationships" as defined in the Education and Training Act 2020. While this Strategic Plan
outlines the approach the University will take to fulfil our responsibilities, we recognise
the diversity of viewpoints on this matter and (consistent with our role as a university) the
importance of critical debate on how the Te Tiriti o Waitangi is effectively applied in the context
of the University.
1 Takiwā equates to region - in this case the geographical home region of Ngāi Tahu.
2 Te ao Māori denotes the Māori world. While simple in definition, it is rich in meaning and vast in breadth and depth,
incorporating te reo Māori (Māori language), tikanga (customs), mātauranga Māori (knowledge), and more broadly, Māori
ways of being and worldviews.
3 Māori sovereignty, autonomy, self-determination.
4 Noting that the current Māori Strategic Framework is now due for replacement and the next iteration is currently in
development.
PAE TATA 11
Underpinned by our
commitment to transforming
lives and nurturing the
environment in Aotearoa and
the Pacific
Vision 2040 articulates the positive impact that we wish to make in our
society, grounded in and growing from our legislatively protected role as
critic and conscience of society. Vision 2040 underpins our way forward
as a strongly connected and socially accountable institution,
demonstrated by:
• Contributing significantly to local, regional, national, and global
advancement hrough our research and outstanding graduates.
• Engaging and partnering with communities in Te Waipounamu and
Aotearoa New Zealand, the Pacific and beyond to undertake
research, teaching and service that supports their needs.
• Supporting and promoting equity, inclusivity, diversity, and reciprocity.
• Behaving ethically and with compassion.
The way in which we demonstrate these elements is articulated
throughout this plan. Alongside our Māori Strategic Framework, our
commitments to sustainability and to our Place in the Pacific are central
themes that permeate the University's Strategic Plan.
PAE TATA 12
Tī Kōuka: The Sustainability Strategic Framework
Vision 2040 embraces sustainability in its broadest sense as demonstrated by our
commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, aiming to meet the needs
of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Tī Kōuka: The Sustainability Strategic Framework provides direction for our sustainability
transition though to 20301, including our commitment to be carbon neutral by 2030. Tī Kōuka
and its action plan will be integrated with the University's strategic planning environment,
forming part of a unified work plan aligned with the Strategic Plan. Importantly, Tī Kōuka will
support us to compete in the global market in both international education and research,
provide international experiences for our students, and support staff travel while minimising
the negative impacts of air travel.
The Pacific Strategic Framework 2022-2030
We are confident of our place within and of the Pacific and aspire to play a leading role in the
Pacific in teaching, research, and community engagements, and to be a premier university of
the region.
The Pacific Strategic Framework is focused on achieving academic excellence,
equitable access and retention of Pacific students. It recognises that strengthening and
celebrating the knowledge, skills and capabilities of Pacific students will prepare Aotearoa New
Zealand's and the wider global workforce to be influential, responsible, and entrepreneurial
citizens. The Pacific Strategic Framework's five goals map firmly into the structure of the
Strategic Plan and will be integrated to ensure alignment of the Pacific Strategic Framework
and the University Strategic Plan.
Action: Create a unified strategic work plan that integrates and ensures alignment in purpose
and actions with the Māori, Pacific and Sustainability Strategic Frameworks.
1 The framework articulates our approach to sustainability across teaching, research, operations, culture, engagement,
regional and global impact, and innovation through the cultural metaphor of the tī kōuka (cabbage tree) which was
critical to sustaining many iwi on Te Waipounamu. We will report on our progress against Tī Kōuka including our carbon
emissions in annual reports.
PAE TATA 13
Achieved through
outcomes in five domains
PAE TATA 14
Where we are heading: The University is a community where staff and students flourish and
contribute meaningfully to our mission and University life. Our University community values and
respects diversity, and our culture is supportive of students and staff. We provide an environment
where all learners can achieve their full potential and grow holistically to become engaged, connected
and highly valued members of society. Our high-performing staff have fulfilling and rewarding
careers, working together towards shared goals. Our leaders at all levels inspire confidence, and our
organisational and leadership structures are agile and aligned with our strategic aspirations.
Provide compelling and viable Organise and focus research and
educational offerings that deliver innovation efforts to deliver high-
excellent student outcomes and quality, impactful research
experiences
Where we are heading: We are known across
Where we are heading: Our students value our Aotearoa New Zealand and globally for
transformative University experience. We produce the quality and impact of our researchers,
graduates distinguished not only by their academic research, and innovation, with the reputation
achievements, but also by their open-mindedness, and rankings performance to match. This
maturity, adaptability, and enduring comradeship. platform strengthens our research by and
The academic, co-curricular, cultural and social for Māori and Pacific peoples. We have
aspects of the student experience challenge, built critical mass in key areas of strength,
inspire and support our diverse student cohort attracting some of the world's best
to achieve the educational and social outcomes researchers and have strong partnerships
of our Vision 2040. Students appreciate our in these areas. Our research endeavours
excellent teachers, clear programme structures have a significant impact on social wellbeing,
and our contemporary ways of teaching with a environmental and sustainability challenges,
digital experience that matches the on-campus both locally and in the Pacific region. Our
experience. Our educational offerings are high expectations, and effective and
delivered in an efficient and financially responsive research supports,
sustainable manner. deliver quality research efficiently.
Whakamana i Te Tiriti o Achieve our ambition to
Waitangi - strengthen our become a more global and
capability, capacity and culture connected university
to honour Te Tiriti o Waitangi
Where we are heading: We are recognised
Where we are heading: We are committed to as a leading global institution in and of
incorporating te ao Māori and mãtauranga Māori, Aotearoa and the Pacific, delivering research
throughout the experience of our students and and teaching that is globally significant and
staff. Our University is a place where tauira and nationally transformative. We attract world-
kaimahi Māori flourish as Māori. Our partnership class researchers, high-quality students, and
with mana whenua is strong, and together esteemed partners. Our focused portfolio
we strengthen the embedding of te ao Māori of partnerships builds our global reputation
throughout the University. Staff and students and impact, and creates value across
engage confidently with te ao Māori across multiple dimensions (teaching, research, and
disciplines. We have academically-focussed and engagement). Our relationship with alumni
engaged senior Māori leaders. Our increasing locally and globally connects them to us in ways
tauira and kaimahi Māori have opportunities to that support them in their lives and careers and
learn and grow within their culture. We do more supports the University to grow and prosper.
research with and by Māori.
PAE TATA 15
Provide
compelling
and viable
educational
offerings that
deliver excellent
student
outcomes and
experiences
PAE TATA 16
Where we are heading: Our students value Where we are now: Our identity as a
our transformative University experience. comprehensive undergraduate residential
We produce graduates distinguished not only university delivering outstanding teaching and
by their academic achievements, but also by learning is a strong foundation for growth.
their open-mindedness, maturity, adaptability,
and enduring comradeship. The academic, The diversity and complexity of our paper
co-curricular, cultural and social aspects of offerings and programme structures can be
the student experience challenge, inspire both confusing and inefficient, and we need
and support our diverse student cohort to to evolve to meet students' emerging digital
achieve the educational and social outcomes learning needs and expectations.
of our Vision 2040. Students appreciate our
While we have taken steps to successfully grow
excellent teachers, clear programme structures
Māori and Pacific student enrolments and have
and our contemporary ways of teaching with
leading support programmes for these students,
a digital experience that matches the on-
we are yet to achieve equity of participation and
campus experience. Our education offerings
achievement for all our students.
are delivered in an efficient and financially
sustainable manner.
Global best practice Our priorities
Sustainable delivery of excellent student 1) Grow our student cohort and increase
outcomes and experiences includes: its diversity.
• focussed curriculum design with the 2) Redefine our graduate attributes to
optimal amount of choice to ensure guide excellence in teaching and deliver
administrative and teaching efficiency, a transformative student experience.
while improving the student experience
through clear pathways 3) Streamline our educational offerings to
deliver an exceptional experience that is
• effective use of technology to enhance financially viable and aligned with
teaching and learning and meet the demand and our strengths.
needs of all students
4) Meet student needs with best practice
• a strong focus on student engagement pedagogy.
and support that incorporates student
feedback and other key perspectives in 5) Achieve equity in student participation
our teaching and learning. and achievement.
PAE TATA 17
Domain-wide success measures
• Student satisfaction with the "Otago experience" is maintained at or above 90%.
• Student EFTS grows to 24,000 by 2030. This includes 15-20% international and 15-20%
postgraduate taught students.
• The University's domestic student cohort becomes more reflective of the national
demographic profile in similar age brackets, taking into account the relative proportion of
under-served groups who achieve university entrance.
• We maintain our position as the number one university in New Zealand for educational
performance for first year retention, paper pass rates, and qualification completion rates.
• Achieve equity in educational achievement by 2030 for priority cohorts1.
1 Priority equity cohorts as defined by the TEC, and including Māori, Pacific and students with disabilities.
PAE TATA 18
Priority 1
Grow our student cohort and increase its diversity
Growing our student cohort and increasing its diversity is essential for the University to remain
competitive, cultivate academic excellence, and advance our equity goals. We are ambitious in
growth, aiming to significantly increase enrolments to 24,000 EFTS by 2030. An upswing in
domestic school leaver numbers from 2025 provides a platform for future domestic growth,
and the University also has significant opportunities to increase postgraduate taught and
international enrolments. Growing our postgraduate taught student cohort is vital to support
the needs of those entering and in the workforce. As we detail further in the Domain Achieve
our ambition to become a more global and connected university, growing our international
student cohort will enrich the cultural and educational experience of all our students, creating
a global community, while also supporting our global reputation and financial sustainability.
Increasing enrolments will be challenging, in an increasingly competitive environment, with
uncertain economic conditions, and rising costs of living. Growth will require all parts of the
University to contribute to attracting and retaining students, through focused and attractive
programme and paper offerings, more flexible delivery including blended and online learning,
quicker admissions decisions, increased support for all students in our community, and the
provision of more student accommodation.
Action: Grow overall enrolment, particularly in our international (onshore and offshore) and
postgraduate taught cohorts.
Priority 2
Redefine our graduate attributes to guide excellence
in teaching and deliver a transformative student
experience
We need to clearly define graduate attributes that support the University in shaping a student's
overall development and communicate externally our value to students. Our graduate
attributes will embody our own unique value proposition and connect to what we teach and
how we teach. Graduate attributes will prepare our students to realise their educational goals,
reach their potential and become highly sought after in the professional world.
Action: Revise our graduate attributes to better align with our unique identity and student
experience and to guide the University's teaching and learning activity.
PAE TATA 19
Priority 3
Streamline our educational offerings to deliver an
exceptional experience that is financially viable and
aligned with demand and our strengths
Our goal in paper and programme consolidation is to respond to student need and demand,
align our offering with our strategic direction, minimise duplication of teaching across existing
papers, and create clarity for students of programme requirements. This will free up resources
for reinvestment.
Our current offerings can be difficult to navigate for students, and inefficient in operation,
which adds complexity and unnecessary effort for our staff. Nearly a quarter of our papers
have less than fifteen enrolments, and these papers typically cost more to deliver and support
than they earn,1 which is financially unsustainable. We will always need to deliver some papers
and programmes with low enrolments for strategic reasons; however, decision-making for
small papers and programmes must account for relative strategic benefits aligned to the
University's overall mission.
Action: Consolidate the University's paper and programme offerings, guided by a set of
principles. The consolidation will be centrally guided, and will require Divisions, Schools, and
Departments to apply these principles firmly and rigorously when new offerings are being
considered or existing offerings are not performing. These principles are:
Principle Description
Strategic alignment Aligns with university and divisional priorities to focus on
what we do best and what will best develop graduates to achieve
our vision of transforming lives, connecting communities, and
nurturing the environment.
Student experience Provides a high-quality educational experience that engages and
challenges students and prepares them to succeed beyond their
studies.
Research alignment Aligns with University research focus areas to give students
access to world-class research and researchers.
Honours Te Tiriti Supports the University to honour Te Tiriti.
Market responsive Appropriate to our relative market position, led by data on
student demand and the needs of students, communities, and
the workforce.
Viable Financially viable to allow us to invest in improving the student
experience across the University, and to support research.
1 This is consistent with similar benchmarks from universities in Australia, Canada and the UK.
PAE TATA 20
Priority 4
Meet student needs with best practice pedagogy
The way we teach must evolve to meet the changing needs and expectations of students if
we are to continue to remain known for the excellence of our teaching, and more broadly for
providing high-quality learning experiences that inspire our students and prepare them for
their lives and careers.
The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated acceptance of increased flexibility and blended
learning, leading many universities around the world to update their offerings and pedagogy.
Non-traditional education providers1 are offering increasingly sophisticated flexible and
targeted learning more cheaply than universities, and providers of all kinds must adapt their
delivery in response to rapid developments in Artificial Intelligence (AI).
We will incorporate blended learning into existing undergraduate pedagogy to complement our
focus on face-to-face delivery, as the on-campus experience provides improved educational
outcomes and is a key differentiator for the University. Our undergraduates want to be on
campus, but with the flexibility to fit study around work and other opportunities such as
internships and Work Integrated Learning (WIL).
A select and carefully designed offering of purpose-designed fully online, flexible, and
blended programmes that align with student demand can help us better meet the needs of
postgraduate taught students, both within New Zealand, and overseas. Opportunities include
non-award programmes for people seeking targeted skills development.
WIL is strongly embedded in many of our professional programmes. We need to build on our
experience in these areas to use WIL more broadly to improve employability and deepen
students' understanding of industry and real-world applications of their learning.
Action: Ensure our pedagogy meets student expectations by:
• incorporating blended learning to complement the undergraduate residential experience
• developing a select and targeted offering of fully online and blended learning postgraduate,
taught and non-award professional development programmes
• enhancing work integrated learning opportunities.
1 For example, edX, Coursera, LinkedIn Learning.
PAE TATA 21
Priority 5
Achieve equity in student participation and achievement
We respond to Vision 2040's commitment to social accountability by supporting our students
to achieve equity in access, participation, and achievement.
Our sustained investment in this area has already contributed strongly to rising enrolments
from under-served groups. Our Māori and Pacific enrolments have risen steadily in recent
years and over 30 per cent of our students are first generation university attendees. However,
increasing socioeconomic diversity remains more of a challenge.
We currently have one of New Zealand's best paper pass rates and qualification completion
rates for Māori and Pacific students and world-leading support programmes delivering
excellent results in some areas, but key educational performance metrics for these groups as a
whole, remain significantly below those achieved by our broader student population. We need
to prepare now to ensure that by 2040, our student body is reflective of the reality that 25.0%
of New Zealand's population aged 15-39 will be Māori, and 13.8% will be of Pacific ethnicity.1
There is still work to be done to support success for all students, such as rolling out our proven
targeted programmes more broadly. Supporting success requires specific approaches for
different groups, as well as responsiveness at the individual level.
Action: Take a whole-of-university approach to supporting under-served groups across the
University, incorporating resourcing and accessibility of supports, pathways to degree-level
study, and financial assistance to ensure we are delivering the range of support students need
to succeed. Implementation of our Pacific Strategic Framework, Māori Strategic Framework,
and Learner Success Plan will underpin this endeavour.
1 Stats NZ projections (50th percentile [median]), 2023.
PAE TATA 22
Organise and
focus research
and innovation
efforts to deliver
high-quality,
impactful
research
PAE TATA 23
Where we are heading: We are known Where we are now: We are nationally known
across Aotearoa New Zealand and globally for our research strengths, our researchers,
for the quality and impact of our researchers, and their high-class research across our
research, and innovation, with the reputation comprehensive offer. Our research is
and rankings performance to match. This innovative and regionally responsive. While
platform strengthens our research by and we have critical mass in some areas, much
for Māori and Pacific peoples. We have of our research effort creates breadth rather
built critical mass in key areas of strength, than depth. It is likely that a lack of research
attracting some of the world's best focus and the need to communicate research
researchers and have strong partnerships impact more strongly is contributing to
in these areas. Our research endeavours our declining performance in international
significant impact on social wellbeing, rankings. While the amount of funding we win
environmental and sustainability challenges, is growing slowly, we have lost market share
both locally and in the Pacific region. across our three major research funding
Our high expectations, and effective and sources. Our key funders' research priorities
responsive research supports, deliver quality are shifting, and others may be adapting to
research efficiently. these faster than we are.
Global best practice Our priorities
Universities around the world are typically 1) Better focus our research into areas of
focusing their research efforts on a smaller strength.
number of areas to achieve greater depth and
performance in these areas, while increasing 2) Communicate our research impact with
research efficiency. Greater depth builds local, regional, and global communities.
critical mass in areas of strength, fostering
3) Align our research partnerships so that
stronger global reputation in those fields, in turn
each one delivers strategic value.
increasing international rankings and helping
to attract the best researchers and relevant
4) Ensure our processes, resource
partnerships..
allocation and staff expectations
efficiently support our areas of research
focus.
Domain-wide success measures:
• The University grows its market share of major New Zealand competitive grant funding
(MBIE, HRC and Marsden).
• Research funding from a diverse range of other sources increases year on year.
• The University improves its standing in the QS and THE Rankings year on year1.
1 Including both its overall rankings, and its specific rankings in a wide variety of disciplines.
PAE TATA 24
Priority 1
Better focus our research into areas of strength
We have a strong domestic reputation for delivering high-quality research across our
comprehensive research portfolio and some notable concentrations of research strength.
However, in many parts of the University research effort is spread thinly across many
discipline areas.
Worldwide, many universities are focusing their research on "grand challenges", such as climate
change, geopolitical security, and AI. Domestically, the Government has signalled a shift toward
a research system that focuses on nationally significant priorities. We need our research to
align with these priorities and work to address the biggest issues facing our local, regional,
and global communities.
Embedded within this is the need to ensure that we have research that is serving and
co-created with our Māori and Pacific communities.
We will increase the depth of our research, achieve critical mass, and strengthen our impact,
by determining focus areas at the University, Division, School, and Department levels.
Action: Redefine our current University-wide Research Strengths against the below principles.
Action: Define a small number of focus areas at the Division and School/Faculty levels, guided
by our University-wide Research Strengths and strategic direction. Use these focus areas
to consolidate our research activity, including through the recruitment of new researchers
and the allocation of internal research funding. Areas to grow or strengthen interdisciplinary
research, particularly focused on "grand challenges", will be identified through this process.
We will assess Research Strengths and define focus funding and capacity-building effort using
the following principles:
Principle Description
Internal strategic Aligns with the strategic priorities of the University.
alignment
External strategic Aligns with the strategic and funding priorities of funding bodies,
alignment government, partners, mana whenua and Pacific communities.
Rewarding success Builds on existing strengths where quality and quantity of research
output have been achieved.
Researcher Provides development opportunities for current researchers and
development strengthens our ability to attract the best researchers.
Honouring Strengthens the University's ability to support Te Tiriti through growing
Te Tiriti Māori-focused research, Māori-led research, and co-creation of
research with Māori.
Partnership potential Creates or strengthens opportunities for partnerships with
government, industry, international universities, and other partners.
PAE TATA 25
Priority 2
Communicate our research impact with local, regional,
and global communities
Global rankings are an important tool for attracting academic staff, students, and high-value
partnerships, and for increasing research and international student income. As such, they
help provide the platform for us to undertake high-impact research across the University,
including in areas of importance to our Māori and Pacific communities. While rankings are a
far from perfect measures of quality, they are increasingly important in a competitive global
environment, especially given that New Zealand Government investment is significantly
constrained and prioritised elsewhere.
Our rankings have declined significantly in recent years. The measures underpinning the
rankings indicate that we need to dramatically improve the communication of our research
impact and quality to the world. Increasing our efforts to demonstrate impact to the New
Zealand community will help to maintain the University's social licence and accountability,
and aid in increasing government funding for research.
Action: Ensure that effective support mechanisms (such as strategic communications and
marketing, media training, conference attendance, and publication support) are in place to
strengthen the ability of our researchers to showcase their research.
PAE TATA 26
Priority 3
Align our research partnerships so that each one delivers
strategic value
Partnerships are critical to delivering much of our research, such as our relationship with the
health sector that facilitates much of our clinical research. However, formal partnerships require
investment to develop and resourcing to maintain, therefore careful decision-making is required
on which partnerships the University pursues, to ensure they deliver value to both sides of the
partnership.
Our current approach to research partnerships has resulted in many partnerships without
sufficient scale or alignment to deliver optimal value. We must adopt a more strategic approach to
partnership development to increase the impact of our partnerships.
Action: Focus our efforts in current and new research partnership development, using criteria
including strategic alignment, alignment with research focus areas, opportunity for growth into
other areas of the University, and financial sustainability.
Priority 4
Ensure our processes, resources allocation and staff
expectations efficiently support our areas of research focus
A more focused approach to research will require our past practices to change. We must support
researchers to understand their responsibilities under this new way of working and ensure
guidelines and processes related to funding allocation, and staff recruitment are clear, transparent
and aligned with the University's strategic priorities. At the centre of this approach is the need to
work more efficiently, allowing us to spend our discretionary research funds less broadly, with more
consolidated effort on research activities aligned to the University's focus.
Action: Update research KPI frameworks, guidelines, funding models, and processes for recruiting
new staff, to ensure that they reflect the principles used to define research focus areas and align
with the University's strategic priorities.
PAE TATA 27
Support our
people to
achieve their
best
PAE TATA 28
Where we are heading: The University is a Where we are now: Our culture has many
community where staff and students flourish positive aspects, fostering high levels of staff
and contribute meaningfully to our mission dedication and student engagement and
and University life. Our University community outcomes. However, we are constrained by
values and respects diversity, and our culture a range of external and internal challenges,
is supportive of students and staff. We and our resilience is being tested by the
provide an environment where all learners pressures of change. We need to grow and
can achieve their full potential and grow support capable leaders to help us navigate
holistically to become engaged, connected the changes ahead. We need to engage
and highly valued members of society. Our and support our staff whose hard work is
high-performing staff have fulfilling and highly valued and essential to our ongoing
rewarding careers, working together towards success as we implement Pae Tata. We
shared goals. Our leaders at all levels inspire provide excellent student support, but a more
confidence, and our organisational and coordinated and consistent approach to
leadership structures are agile and aligned delivering this support will further strengthen
with our strategic aspirations. the Otago student experience.
Global best practice Our priorities
Successful universities approach wellbeing 1) Strengthen a culture of working
with a whole-of-university approach wherein together and supporting diversity.
all aspects of the university promote and
support wellbeing, with the support of leaders, 2) Ensure students thrive through the
a focus on culture, and designing services unique Otago experience.
collaboratively with students and staff.
3) Support our staff to succeed and grow.
Universities with a highly devolved operating
4) Build the capability of our leaders at all
model that have successfully undergone
levels.
transformation have focused on developing
a cohesive university culture. This unites
universities with shared goals and ensures
that leaders at all levels are making decision
that contribute to shared success.
Domain-wide success measures:
• Students and staff report a sense of belonging to the University community.
• Students and staff are satisfied with the University's support for their development
and wellbeing.
• Staff turnover is reduced.
PAE TATA 29
Priority 1
Enhance a culture of working together and supporting
diversity
We are proud of our staff and their continued commitment to delivering excellence throughout
the University. We are equally proud of the strong relationship between our staff and students,
and our students' high level of engagement in university affairs is one of our great strengths.
While this creates a strong positive basis for our culture, several factors have eroded elements
of our culture, including COVID-19 disruption, a legacy of tolerance for the poor behaviour
of a small number of staff, a divide between some academic and professional staff, and the
University's financial situation. Change in large, complex institutions such as universities is
difficult, and we need to learn to change more effectively and more successfully.
We have undertaken foundational work that allows us to move forward on elements of our
workplace culture, but we need to do more. We aim to ensure that the University, its leaders,
and all staff within it are equipped for, and proactively engaged in embedding our values
as articulated in Vision 2040. We will build on the Equity and Diversity, Māori, and Pacific
Strategic Frameworks, to ensure that our community respects and celebrates diversity.
Becoming a stronger version of ourselves will require us to live these values day to day,
embrace new ways of working and keep the University's vision, mission, and strategic priorities
at the forefront of our decision-making through a period of significant change.
Our culture is reinforced by the decisions and actions of leaders, our people practices,
processes, systems, and underlying structures as well as behaviours and performance that
are rewarded.
Action: Improve the elements of our leadership, capability, processes, and systems required to
embed a positive, collaborative, and unified university culture that is based on the University's
values and supports diversity and increased comfort with change.
PAE TATA 30
Priority 2
Ensure students thrive through the unique Otago
experience
We are known for the strength of our student experience, underpinned by our distinctive
character as a residential university, and by the commitment of our staff to providing an
environment where learners from all backgrounds and experiences are supported to achieve
their full potential. Our students are engaged in the community through volunteering and other
types of service, and are sought after for their capability, resilience, and well-roundedness.
Aware that we live in a challenging world where politics and policy have become fraught and
polarised, we will also support students to disagree openly and respectfully, think critically, and
debate important and contentious issues constructively.
The University acted swiftly to support student wellbeing through COVID-19 disruptions,
working with student leaders to enact a comprehensive response. As mentioned elsewhere
in this plan, we have world-leading support programmes for Māori and Pacific students
and work hard to support all our students. However, there is more we can do to apply
excellent initiatives that have worked in particular parts of the University more broadly. We
need to ensure we coordinate academic, wellbeing and other types of support around the
concept of supporting the whole student, and use data more to inform, tailor and monitor
our support interventions. In doing so, we also need to ensure we meet the requirements
of relevant government regulations and expectations as they relate to pastoral care and
student success1.
Action: Enhance our culture of holistic student success by:
• ensuring our staff continue to place students at the centre of what we do and how we do it.
• improving the consistency, coordination, visibility, and utilisation of our student support
services
• continue to embed extra- and co-curricular activities within the Otago student experience
to develop graduates that are engaged and responsible contributors to society.
1 This includes legislation relation to pastoral care and expectations related to the Learner Success Plan.
PAE TATA 31
Priority 3
Support our staff to succeed and grow
The University has historically enjoyed a strong reputation as a place to build a career, and
many of our staff are long-serving. The culture-related challenges mentioned above have had
a negative impact on staff wellbeing and satisfaction, and the disruption of internal change
and sector-wide evolution ahead will continue to challenge us. Meanwhile, job market and
economic conditions are having a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain staff.
Some of our staff have job descriptions that do not accurately describe their work, spend too
much time on transactional tasks, and in some parts of professional services, have limited
opportunities for career development. Staff at all levels and in all roles need to be supported
with clear and relevant job descriptions with performance expectations that align with these
job descriptions.
Our success is determined by our ability to attract and retain highly talented and committed
people. The factors above make it critical for us to strengthen our reputation as a place where
staff are supported to do their best work. This will require us to consider all aspects of the
experience of working at the University.
Action: Take a holistic approach to building careers and supporting staff including:
• Refine career development frameworks for all staff, including consistent access to targeted
and relevant professional development and resources for all staff.
• Undertake job redesign where needed to ensure that all staff have fulfilling and rewarding
work, including updating job descriptions to match work being completed and relevant
performance expectations.
• Strengthen staff wellbeing and support mechanisms.
PAE TATA 32
Priority 4
Build the capability of our leaders
University leaders made rapid decisions to respond to the COVID-19 crisis, however, in our
normal mode of operation, decision-making is often slow. We have not always empowered
our leaders at all levels with clarity of direction or expectation or provided the support or
development they need to be fully effective. Complex leadership structures and a hierarchical
culture of internal compliance and control contributes to this lack of empowerment, to slow
decision making, and to an uneven track record of effectively implementing key strategic decisions.
Universities elsewhere are responding to the kinds of challenge we face by bringing together
academic and professional leadership, and ensuring they have roles that allow them to focus
on leadership and alignment in implementing strategy. We need to build our leaders' capability
across a range of areas to help them better support students and staff to flourish, pursue
iterative improvement, and manage the business of their areas.
Action: Build the capability of leaders and improve our leadership structures to ensure that
our leadership is agile and aligned to our strategic aspirations.
Action: Develop performance expectations for leaders at all levels that clearly articulate their
role in implementing Pae Tata.
PAE TATA 33
Whakamana
i Te Tiriti o
Waitangi -
strengthen
our capability,
capacity, and
culture to
honour Te Tiriti
o Waitangi
PAE TATA 34
Where we are heading: We are committed Where we are now: We have made strong
to incorporating te ao Māori and mātauranga progress growing our numbers of tauira Māori
Māori, throughout the experience of our and (to a lesser extent) kaimahi Māori, but
students and staff. Our University is a we have a long way to go for our numbers
place where tauira and kaimahi1 Māori to reflect society. Our kaimahi Māori are
flourish as Māori. Our partnership with frequently called on outside of their regular
mana whenua is strong, and together we duties to support building cultural capability
strengthen the embedding of te ao Māori across the University. There are pockets of
throughout the University. Staff and students strength where te ao Māori is embedded
engage confidently with te ao Māori across in teaching and research, but many of
disciplines. We have academically-focused our students have limited opportunity to
and engaged senior Māori leaders. Our tauira engage with te ao Māori in their studies.
and kaimahi Māori have opportunities to learn We have lagged behind other universities
and grow within their culture. We do more in establishing a senior Māori academic
research with and by Māori. leadership role.
1 Tauira means student or learner, kaimahi means staff.
New Zealand best practice Our priorities
Best practice is emerging across the Our approach is to grow our culture, cultural
education sector and the public sector capability, and capacity to honour Te Tiriti and
in New Zealand as institutions grow their embed te ao Māori together, as one cannot
understanding of and approach to honouring grow far without the other.
Te Tiriti.
1) Ensure we have the leaders, structures,
A common thread is ensuring that there are and resourcing to support our Te Tiriti
leaders, structures and teams with specific journey and mana whenua partnership.
responsibilities and resourcing to undertake
critical work. For example, curriculum 2) Support all our staff to engage with and
transformation working groups, Te Tiriti embed te ao Māori.
offices, and engagement mechanisms for
3) Provide an environment in which tauira
Māori within industry and community.
Māori can succeed as Māori.
4) Develop innovative ways for all students
to engage and learn with and in te ao Māori.
5) Grow research engaged with te ao Māori.
6) Protect taonga1 Māori.
1 Taonga Māori are cultural treasures, including te reo
Māori (language) and mātauranga Māori (knowledge).
PAE TATA 35
Domain-wide success measures:
• Tauira Māori and kaimahi Māori report that they feel their Māori identity and culture are
valued at the University.
• Students report that they have had the opportunities they want to engage with te ao Māori.
• The number of research outputs1 across categories of Māori-focused research, Māori-led
research, and research undertaken engaging with Māori continues to grow.
1 The term is used in the broadest sense to reflect the variety of outputs that our Māori academics produce and is not
limited to publications.
Priority 1
Ensure we have the leaders, structures, and resourcing
to support our Te Tiriti journey and mana whenua
partnership
The scale of the journey towards Vision 2040 and bringing together te ao Māori and the
Western university world will require significant Māori leadership, and place great demands on
our partnership with Ngāi Tahu and mana whenua at our other campuses as we will need their
guidance and collaboration at many stages of the journey. We must approach this partnership
in recognition that mana whenua are called upon as partners to many organisations, and the
partnership is foremost between mana whenua, University Council and Senior Executives
at the mana-to-mana level. We need to foster manaakitanga1 and reciprocity in support of
our partnership.
Action: Establish a Māori academic role at the senior leadership level and revise the structure
and reporting lines of Māori leadership across the University in light of the establishment of
this senior role.
Action: Commit to additional resourcing to ensure our Te Tiriti partnership with mana
whenua is fully supported.
1 Manaakitanga derives from two words - 'mana' and 'aki'. Mana is a condition that holds everything in the highest regard.
Aki means to uphold or support. Extending Manaakitanga requires respect, humility, kindness, and honesty.
PAE TATA 36
Priority 2
Support all our staff to engage with and embed
te ao Māori
Embedding te ao Māori across the University will require all our staff to strengthen their
capability to understand and work in te ao Māori, supported by a significant increase in our
number of kaimahi Māori (both academic and professional), and underpinned by a workplace
culture that values te ao Māori and empowers kaimahi Māori. Ensuring we have the staffing
capability and capacity to embed te ao Māori is critical to contribute to the advancement of
mātauranga Māori through our teaching and research and for supporting our tauira Māori.
Increasing our number of kaimahi Māori
Among the many reasons we need to increase our number of kaimahi Māori are:
1. To ensure that the percentage of kaimahi Māori is more reflective of our society and
student population.
2. To grow our capability and capacity to embed te ao Māori across the University. Greater
numbers of kaimahi Māori in dedicated roles both engaging directly in teaching and research
and supporting the University to build its capability to engage with te ao Māori, will be pivotal
to ensure the additional workload does not fall on Māori staff who are not in roles dedicated to
this purpose.
We aim to increase our kaimahi Māori numbers in an environment where there is both a
shortage of Māori to take on these roles, and significant competition to recruit and retain
them. We need to adopt innovative ways to engage mātanga Māori (Māori experts) in our
operations, offerings, and delivery. There are many opportunities to meet the staffing and
knowledge needs of embedding te ao Māori across the University, that will also enrich learning,
research, and ways of working.
Action: Significantly increase initiatives to retain, grow and support Māori staff including:
targeted recruitment, establishing kaupapa Māori focused roles, career development
programmes and pathways, and Māori staff support networks.
Action: Support more flexible and mutually beneficial opportunities for Māori professionals,
businesses and institutions across industry, government, and academia to engage in teaching
and capability uplift at the University.
PAE TATA 37
Strengthening our capability to engage with te ao Māori
and our workplace culture.
All our staff must strengthen their understanding of and engagement with te ao Māori and
grow our University culture to be a place where tauira and kaimahi Māori flourish as Māori.
We acknowledge the challenge of delivering capability development across the University, and
that our staff will have different learning needs to achieve growth. We will need to balance the
need to build foundational capability in ways that are authentic at scale across the University,
with the need for more focused capability development to meet the demands of specific roles.
We will work to ensure the workload of growing cultural empathy and capability does not fall
on Māori staff who are not in relevant dedicated roles, and that all staff are supported in this
journey.
Action: Design and provide capability development programmes for all our staff adopting a
stepped approach to capability development and move towards making these required for all.1
Action: Aligned with the Domain Support our people to achieve their best, grow our
workplace culture to ensure that the University is a safe and supportive space for Māori staff.
1 As a first step towards this, the University will deploy the Te Rito bicultural competency programme.
Priority 3
Provide an environment in which tauira Māori can
succeed as Māori
As stated in the Domain Provide a compelling and viable educational offer that delivers
excellent student outcomes and experiences, we currently have one of New Zealand's best
paper pass rates and qualification completion rates for Māori and Pacific students and world-
leading support programmes delivering excellent results in some areas. However, these key
educational performance indicators are significantly below the rates achieved by our broader
student population. Honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi in the University context strengthens our
existing commitment to supporting tauira Māori. We need to empower tauira Māori to succeed
as Māori through valuing their culture, their voice and responding to their needs. We need to
invest in their success, for our success.
Action: In conjunction with the action related to student support outlined elsewhere in Pae
Tata, engage with tauira Māori to understand their needs and responsively shape the support
they want, including revising mechanisms for senior leadership to engage with tauira Māori.
PAE TATA 38
Priority 4
Develop innovative ways for students to engage and
learn with and in te ao Māori
Honouring Te Tiriti means ensuring that all students should have opportunities to learn from
and within a te ao Māori framework, and this is increasingly an expectation from many of
our students. This means providing opportunities to engage with te ao Māori for students at
all levels, whatever their programme, pathway or prior experience. We will need to provide
foundational learning at scale University-wide as well as discipline-specific learning.
Given that different areas of the University have different levels of experience delivering
learning with and in te ao Māori, approaches will initially be tailored to match existing levels of
capability and capacity. We will also work towards bringing together Māori epistemologies and
pedagogy methods with mainstream Western models for learning delivery.
Action: Ensure adequate resourcing (potentially through a dedicated unit or centre) to
increase the incorporation of te ao Māori perspectives and pedagogies in papers and
programmes via a stepped approach (below).
Action: Investigate the feasibility of making 100-level courses in te reo Māori and te ao Māori
mandatory across the University for students who have not completed relevant prior study or
do not meet a minimum level of competence.1
Strengthen iwi/hapū
partnership
IMMERSION
PROGRAMMES
KAUPAPA
MĀORI LED
AND CENTRED
KAUPAPA MĀORI
PROGRAMMES
PATHWAYS
THROUGH
BUILDING IN
PROGRAMMES
CONTENT
Previewing pedagogy
1 Kaupapa Māori here refers to a Māori approach to learning and education incorporating the knowledge, skills,
attitudes, and values of Māori society.
PAE TATA 39
Priority 5
Grow our research that engages with te ao Māori
The University has gradually increased the number of research projects that progress through
the Research Consultation with Māori Policy, but we do not effectively capture data on
research outputs that engage with te ao Māori. We want to grow our research with and by
Māori and improve our ability to measure and monitor performance in these areas. Priority 2
Actions to retain, grow and support Māori staff, and increase the cultural capability of all our
staff will assist us to grow our research that engages with te ao Māori, but there is more we
can do.
Action: Ensure that the University has the internal supports, postgraduate scholarships and
data capture required to increase and measure research activity that effectively engages with
te ao Māori.
Priority 6
Protect taonga Māori
Embedding te ao Māori across the University's educational offering will require much greater
access to, development of, and use of taonga Māori (Māori cultural treasures), including te reo
Māori (language), mātauranga Māori (knowledge) and tikanga Māori (customs). Taonga remain
the cultural and intellectual property of their Māori kaitiaki (custodians). We need to develop
ways to ensure taonga that form part of our education are accessed, developed, and used in a
culturally appropriate manner that upholds mana whenua's tino rangatiratanga.
Action: Ensure that the University has the staffing, processes, and governance in place to
support the culturally appropriate use of taonga Māori in partnership with kaitiaki, mana
whenua, and government.
PAE TATA 40
Achieve our
ambition to
become a
more global
and connected
university
PAE TATA 41
Where we are heading: We are recognised Where we are now: We are no longer ranked
as a leading global institution in and of in the QS top 200 or the THE top 300 which
Aotearoa and the Pacific, delivering research has implications for international recruitment,
and teaching that is globally significant and research, and partnerships. Our international
regionally and nationally transformative. We students come from many source countries
attract world-class researchers, high-quality and bring a rich diversity to the University;
students, and esteemed partners. Our however, there are too few of them. Our
focused portfolio of partnerships builds our rebuild of that international student cohort
global reputation and impact, and creates aims to quickly exceed our pre-pandemic
value across multiple dimensions (teaching, levels. We have a significant number of
research, and engagement). Our relationship international partnerships and agreements
with alumni locally and globally connects and must ensure these deliver maximum
them to us in ways that support them in their value. Our alumni feel strong loyalty to our
lives and careers and supports the University institution, but this relationship could deliver
to grow and prosper. much more to both parties.
Global best practice Our priorities
Universities are operating in an increasingly 1) Substantially grow our international
global environment to deliver the best student cohort at both undergraduate and
research, to achieve the best outcomes for postgraduate levels.
students, and to have impact at a local and
global level. Universities in many parts of 2) Maximise the impact of strategically
the world have achieved major increases aligned global partnerships, particularly in
in international student recruitment to the Pacific.
contribute to growth through matching global
3) Increase student mobility and create
market demand with programme offering.
transformative international experiences
To succeed in this competitive environment,
for all our students.
they are taking a coordinated approach to
high-value international partnerships that are
4) Deepen our relationship with alumni,
relevant to many parts of the institution.
industry and community stakeholders,
and other strategic partners.
Domain-wide success measures:
• Grow our undergraduate and postgraduate international fee-paying enrolments so that
our international student cohort reaches 4,000 EFTS by 2030.
• At least 500 students per year studying abroad, undertaking outbound exchange
experiences, or participating in collaborative online international learning programmes,
and the diversity of students undertaking these programmes increases to be more
reflective of the student population.
• Continually increase the proportion of alumni engaged with the University in each of the
four CASE (Council for Advancement and Support of Education) categories of connecting,
giving, going, and helping.
PAE TATA 42
Priority 1
Substantially grow our international student cohort at
both undergraduate and postgraduate levels
International students are vital to the cultural and intellectual life of the University, enriching the
wider student experience through cross-cultural learning. They strengthen our global alumni
network and partnerships and are critical to achieving the financial sustainability needed to
deliver excellent teaching and research.
Due to our previous cap on international student numbers, our international student cohort
and growth has been less than that of other New Zealand universities. We seek to recover
our pre-COVID undergraduate and postgraduate taught international cohorts, then grow well
beyond those levels to 2030. This will require a more ambitious approach to international
marketing and recruitment.
As we grow our international student cohort, it is critical that we maintain our high-quality
international student experience. This will require adjusting our resourcing for international
student support, as well as ensuring there is suitable available accommodation, targeted
financial aid, and improved responsiveness to student applications and enquiries.1
Action: Attract greater numbers of international students through a coordinated approach
that articulates a distinctive and clear value proposition in regions we are competitive in and
leverages our networks and partnerships, while improving conversion rates for students that
enquire and apply to study with us.
1 Students may also require academic and English language support.
PAE TATA 43
Priority 2
Maximise the impact of strategically aligned global
partnerships, particularly in the Pacific
We have many international partnerships and agreements, which deliver joint research,
facilitate student mobility and staff development, and involve collaborations that address
global and local challenges. Some partnerships focus on specific activities, while others such
as the Matariki Network1 advance multiple aspects of the University's mission and help raise
the University's global profile. The development of meaningful, targeted partnerships can
attract more international students and staff, leading to increased diversity and intellectual
exchange. It can also strengthen our international reputation, as well as increased funding
opportunities and research outputs.
It is important to maintain an overview of partnerships, to ensure strategic alignment of
the suite of agreements. Having too many partnerships can absorb effort for outcomes
that are insufficiently leveraged and fail to deliver genuine collaboration or mutual benefit.
A clear partnership selection and management framework is needed to assess the relative
opportunities and risks of partnerships, and the resourcing required to give effect to them.
Action: Focus our approach to international partnerships by considering each partnership's
strategic alignment and commitment, potential to deliver value, and reputational benefits.
Action: Strengthen Pacific partnerships and networks to build on the goals on our Pacific
Strategic Framework.
Action: Strengthen our collaboration with the Matariki Network to deliver greater value across
the University.
1 matarikinetwork.org
PAE TATA 44
Priority 3
Increase student mobility and create transformative
international experiences for all our students
Our students are not participating in international student experiences at the scale we would
like, missing out on opportunities to broaden their perspectives and enhance career prospects.
This leaves us at risk of becoming uncompetitive in the market, impacting on our reputation and
partnerships, and potentially affecting future funding opportunities.
Increasing the number of outbound mobility/student exchange and collaborative online
international learning (COIL) opportunities will enhance the international exposure, cultural
capability, and personal and professional development of our students. Increased participation also
strengthens international partnerships. We can do more to support and encourage students to
participate in outbound international opportunities and increase the diversity of those taking part.
Action: Extend opportunities and increase options for outbound mobility, student exchange
and collaborative online international learning experiences.
Action: Partner with institutions that prioritise diversity and inclusivity, including growing the
Tūrangawaewae, Pōkai Whenua Award.1
Priority 4
Deepen our relationship with alumni, industry and
community stakeholders, and other strategic partners
The loyalty and strength of our community of over 160,000 alumni is a great source of pride. Many of
our alumni, both locally and globally, look back at their time at the University with great fondness and
support us in myriad ways. However, we have an opportunity to build deeper connections with more of
our alumni, that benefit both them and us. The University can do more to support life-long engagement
with alumni2. Stronger alumni relationships can support the University in many ways, such as via national
and global partnerships, assistance with recruitment and advocacy, and increased philanthropy.
Similarly, our industry, community and other strategic partners are vital to delivering high-quality teaching
and research, supporting the operations of the University in other ways, and creating opportunities for
our students, staff, and alumni. There are many opportunities for us to grow these connections and the
mutual benefit they deliver.
Action: Increase alumni engagement through an approach that creates mutual benefit.
Action: Grow relationships with industry and community stakeholders and other strategic
partners, focusing on a small number of partnerships that will create value across the University.
1 The Tūrangawaewae, Pōkai Whenua Award is an example of how we ensure our Māori students can undertake
international experiences, and through this, grow through global relationships with indigenous communities.
2 By, for example further learning opportunities and the use of campus facilities.
PAE TATA 45
Supported
by a
contemporary,
effective,
efficient and
responsive
university
PAE TATA 46
Deliver value to Transform
Ensure our
the University and our digital
structures and
community through environment to
processes enable
the unique character create value for
us to work
and purpose of our students and
effectively
places staff
Where we are heading: Where we are heading: Where we are heading:
We have excellent, distinctive Our digital spaces operate Our academic divisions,
campuses that: seamlessly in tandem with schools and departments
our physical spaces to and professional service
• are vibrant places of enhance our staff, students divisions operate effectively
research and learning and communities' experience and collaboratively in support
of the University. of University strategy. We
• support an outstanding
have the right structures,
student experience and Our students access meaning that our academic
integrate learning into the high-quality content and departments, schools and
community flexible learning that meets divisions are the optimal
their learning needs. Our size, and both our academic
• align with our strategic
effective and contemporary and professional services
direction
student-facing systems structures are organised to
assist students to access the support the effective and
• enable opportunities for
services they need. efficient delivery of teaching,
greater engagement and
research, engagement and
partnership
Our systems are fit for
services. We have high-
purpose, and our staff
quality, comprehensive and
• are maintained and
can focus their time on
easily accessible support for
developed efficiently; and
productive tasks.
students and staff, supported
are well-utilised
by effective service models
Our data is managed
• offer teaching, research that are centrally guided
effectively so that decision
and outreach targeted to and locally executed, and
making is well-informed
the needs of partners and processes that empower our
and we can easily track
communities we serve. staff and students.
performance.
PAE TATA 47
Deliver value to the University and
community through the unique
character and purpose of our places
PAE TATA 48
Where we are heading: We have excellent, Where we are now: One of our strengths as
distinctive campuses that: a University is our national presence. We have
an iconic Dunedin campus, and a physical
• are vibrant places of research and learning footprint across Aotearoa, including major
health sciences presences in Christchurch
• support an outstanding student
and Wellington. However, our approach to
experience and integrate learning into
campus development has at times lacked
the community
strategic direction. Due to our ageing building
• align with our strategic direction
portfolio and the types of academic activity
• enable opportunities for greater we undertake, we have high maintenance
engagement and partnership costs. Some of our facilities are nearing end
of life, require extensive seismic work, or
• are maintained and developed efficiently;
are heritage buildings. Additionally, we are
and are well-utilised
not making the most of our spaces for our
• provide teaching, research and outreach students and staff, or maximising how they
targeted to the needs of partners and contribute to our communities.
the communities
Global best practice Our priorities
Successful multi-campus universities 1) Take a strategic and responsive approach
around the world are focusing their campus to campus planning.
strategy to meet the needs of students,
workforces, partners, and communities. 2) Deliver what our communities need from
Their campus strategies are defined by a our campuses.
clear value proposition for each campus.
3) Achieve greater efficiency in space
Value propositions are informed by data on
utilisation.
student demand, community government
and industry need, and opportunities for local
4) Maintain and develop fit-for-purpose
partnerships. The campus strategy guides
facilities.
the educational offering, research activities,
facilities, and underpinning investment, all of
which should aim to enhance the campus's
value proposition.
Domain-wide success measures:
• Space utilisation improves year on year to at least match national and international
benchmarks from comparator universities.
• Staff and students are satisfied with the campus environment.
PAE TATA 49
Priority 1
Take a strategic and responsive approach to campus
planning
Our national footprint is a unique strengths, and our campuses and sites across New Zealand are critical
to delivering teaching, learning and research as well as vital community and health services. However, our
approach to developing this footprint must be more strongly guided by our strategy to ensure the choices
we make deliver the most value. This 'value' includes maximising student experience and learning,
building strong local strategic partnerships, and contributing to the local community.
The current scope of activity at each of our established campuses and their locational contexts provide
a starting point for considering what the future scope of activity at those sites should be. Along with
considering these current sites - in Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington, Invercargill, and Auckland - we
also need to consider future priorities for physically dispersed activity1, and developing our presence in
Central Otago/Queenstown Lakes.
Action: Confirm and follow an overall campus strategy for the University's physical footprint
and use this platform to develop specific campus strategies for each location from this. Each
of these strategies should be data-driven and clearly map the character and purpose of the
place. The strategies must deliver clearly on our five domains and must show how each place
will contribute to our shared goals, outlining priorities over the short, medium, and long-term.
Action: Ensure alignment of divisional plans with the campus strategy, and from this base
develop updated asset management and long-term capital plans.
Priority 2
Deliver what our communities need from our campuses
Our flagship Dunedin campus is the economic lifeblood of the city. However, it is not part of many
locals' everyday lives, and besides accessing health or sporting facilities, attending cultural and
academic events, or our pro bono legal advice, they have few reasons to venture on-campus.
Additional community amenities, services and events on campus could bring in locals and generate
additional revenue. Providing opportunities for the community to engage with the campus and in
social, educational, and cultural activities can also ensure we contribute to the community and
maintain our credibility and trust.
While our other campuses are proportionally less vital to the cities in which they are based than
our Dunedin campus, the important community contributions they make can be activated more
purposefully.
Action: Develop and implement campus activation strategies, initially focused on a strategy
for the Dunedin campus.
1 Currently, delivery dispersed beyond our campus sites exists mainly to fulfil the placement needs of professional
degree programmes.
PAE TATA 50
Priority 3
Achieve greater efficiency in space utilisation
Our large footprint is one of our strengths, however our space utilisation is not supporting us
to get the most out of these spaces, with poor space utilisation in some areas. It is critical that
we maximise space efficiency to help manage the high cost of our building portfolio, costs
related to deferred maintenance and seismic proofing, and a high proportion of academic and
research activity in capital intensive areas that require specialised equipment and facilities.
We must plan our space needs and make the most of our existing spaces, and apply the
opportunities provided by increased flexible learning and working to the way we use our
spaces. This may allow us to reduce our building footprint by exiting some existing buildings at
the end of their life rather than replacing them.
Action: Improve the utilisation of all the University's spaces, including updating the policies,
processes and systems used to control, allocate and monitor spaces.
Priority 4
Maintain and develop fit-for-purpose facilities
It is important that we take an informed approach to the maintenance and development of our
facilities, to ensure that they remain useable and in good condition into the future. Decision-
making must be guided by strategy.
This approach will ensure that we prioritise spending carefully and are able to meet crucial
maintenance requirements. We will also need to invest to ensure that our facilities are fit-for-
purpose to deliver digital and blended learning.
Action: Urgently reprioritise investment in facilities, guided by campus strategies and principles.
PAE TATA 51
Ensure our processes
and structures enable
us to work effectively
PAE TATA 52
Where we are heading: Our academic Where we are now: Our divisions,
divisions, schools and departments and departments and schools deliver quality
professional service divisions operate teaching and research through complex
effectively and collaboratively, in support divisional and academic processes and
of University strategy. We have the right structures. This creates additional work for
structures in place, meaning that our academic and professional staff, makes it
academic departments, schools, and divisions hard to navigate for staff and students alike,
are the optimal size, and both our academic involves some areas of duplication, and
and professional services structures are contributes to siloed decision-making. Our
organised to support the effective and professional services are delivering high
efficient delivery of teaching, research, quality work, notwithstanding challenging
engagement and services. We have high- processes, systems, and governance.
quality, comprehensive, and easily accessible However, many staff spend too much time
support for students and staff, supported by on transactional tasks and cumbersome
effective service models that are centrally processes, and their work is not sufficiently
guided and locally executed, and processes aligned to the University's strategy.
that empower our staff and students.
Global best practice Our priorities
Universities are learning from other sectors 1) Develop fit-for-purpose academic
in adopting consistent structures and structures to enable effective and
reshaping their academic units to achieve efficient delivery of teaching, research,
greater effectiveness and efficiency. This and engagement.
includes a shift away from groupings purely
based on disciplines, and the consolidation 2) Redevelop academic processes and their
of small departments in ways that achieve associated decision-making structures.
methodological, intellectual and pedagogical
3) Commit to continuous and strategically-
synergies.
aligned process improvement.
Top universities around the world have
4) Redevelop professional service models
professional services structured around
and structures to ensure they are effective,
clearly articulated service delivery models.
efficient, and responsive.
Universities are continuously improving
their delivery models and are continuously
looking to improve the way they improve their
services to increase efficiency and provide
good outcomes for students and staff.
Domain-wide success measures:
• Staff are satisfied with service quality.
• Students are satisfied with administrative services and support services is maintained at or
above 90%.
• Generate a financial surplus sufficient to meet our future development needs and obligations.
PAE TATA 53
Priority 1
Develop fit-for-purpose academic structures to enable
effective and efficient delivery of teaching, research,
and engagement
Effective universities have clear and consistent structures, with academic unit sizes that support
effective teaching and learning, research, and partnerships. Within our academic divisions, we
have too many departments of highly variable sizes, reducing the efficiency of teaching, research,
and professional service provision. Academic structures and disciplines have evolved over time,
while the structures and controls (including financial models) relating to paper and programme
offerings have tended to encourage duplication of teaching rather than collaboration.
There are opportunities to bring our academic structures into closer alignment to support
increased collaboration, reduce duplication of papers, and increase time available for research.
Our largest academic division (Health Sciences) is currently reviewing its organisational
structure, which should result in a more consolidated, simpler, structure. Similarly, there are
opportunities to enhance the structure of other divisions. Having similar structures across
divisions based on spans of control allows for more effective leadership, provides more
opportunities for professional services to streamline processes and so reduce administrative
burden on academic staff, supporting a focus on quality research and teaching. This needs to
be supported by structures and processes that provide the right incentives and controls to
achieve growth and manage it collaboratively, transparently, and efficiently.
Action: Implement the findings of the review of Health Sciences divisional structure.
Action: Ensure the structure and alignment of disciplines across divisions supports the
achievement of the University's strategy.
Action: Improve our budget model, and other relevant structures and controls related to how
we allocate funding and academic staffing resources across teaching and research, to support
focusing our educational offerings and research activities and reduce duplication.
Priority 2
Redevelop academic processes and their associated
decision-making structures
Our academic processes can create unnecessary additional work for staff and can be
confusing and frustrating for staff and students. Processes such as admissions assessment,
approval of research and study leave, scholarship allocation, and changes to programmes and
papers can take significant time, reducing the University's agility and ability to capitalise on
opportunities. There are many opportunities to streamline these processes and make them
more consistent to improve efficiencies, and staff and student satisfaction.
Action: Update academic processes and associated decision-making structures to ensure they
are effective, efficient, and responsive.
PAE TATA 54
Priority 3
Commit to continuous and strategically aligned process
improvement
Continuous process improvement can help increase productivity and enhance student and
staff satisfaction. Currently, many of our processes require much manual transactional effort.
Processes are not standardised between departments, schools and divisions, and some
processes are overly convoluted, resulting in duplicated activity, and difficulty in delivering
services effectively and efficiently. This situation is, in part, both a consequence of and a
response to our structural complexity.
The convoluted and multi-layered nature of many approval processes is an ineffective use of
professional and academic staff time. It is likely contributing to our staff feeling a lack of trust
and potentially devalued and takes academic staff time away from their core work.
There are significant opportunities to streamline many of our processes and consider risk-
based approaches to remove or reduce internal bureaucracy. This will improve efficiency and
enhance the benefits of automation.
It is therefore a priority to lead process improvement strategically, with appropriate resourcing,
in a way that supports staff and students to do their best work. We will take different
approaches to improving different processes: some processes may need an iterative approach
to progressively improve them, and others may require a full re-design.
Action: Streamline processes and minimise duplication through process mapping and redesigning
workflows, focusing on reducing transactional tasks and eliminating unnecessary steps.
Priority 4:
Redevelop professional service models and structure to
ensure they are effective, efficient, and responsive.
Our staff profile will need to evolve to meet the operational needs generated by growth in
student enrolments, while also helping us to become financially sustainable. Benchmarking with
comparator universities shows that we can achieve considerable growth in our student body
without growing overall staff numbers through greater efficiency in service delivery; indeed, there
will be some areas where improved structures and efficiency will allow us to deliver the same
services with fewer staff. Putting in place a more effective service model and structures will also
allow us to deliver higher quality services to our students, staff, and community.
Action: Develop and implement a service models that align to University strategic goals and
delivers greater efficiency, including redesigning professional services structures and exploring
outsourcing where it will deliver value.
Action: Ensure that our service models are working efficiently and effectively through regular
service quality surveys and benchmarking against comparator universities.
PAE TATA 55
Transform our digital environment to
create value for students and staff
PAE TATA 56
Where we are heading: Our digital spaces Where we are now: We pivoted quickly to
operate seamlessly in tandem with our deliver online learning through COVID-19
physical places to enhance our staff, students, and there are pockets of excellence in digital
and communities' experience of the University. learning. However, on the whole, our
students' digital experience lags behind our
Our students access high-quality content on-campus experience.
and flexible learning that meets their
digital learning needs. Our effective and Fit for purpose systems are a critical enabler
contemporary student-facing systems assist for the University across teaching, research,
students to access the services they need. and operations, but many of our systems
are outdated. This situation, as well as siloed
Our systems are fit for purpose, and our staff digital systems and structural complexity,
can focus their time on productive tasks. cause inefficiency and a lack of visibility of key
information across the University. Many of
Our data is managed effectively so that
our systems need significant improvements,
decision making is well-informed and we can
replacement, or consolidation.
easily track performance.
Global best practice Our priorities
Areas where universities are leading in digital 1. Develop a Digital Transformation Roadmap.
transformation include:
2. Deliver a contemporary digital student
experience.
• increased transactional automation and
self-serving, enabled by digital systems 3. Streamline and update our systems and
and AI, reducing the workload of staff data landscape.
• increased automation of transactional
processes is causing a shift towards
higher expertise professional staff who
are providing specialist advice and
focusing efforts on more complex tasks
• innovative data analytics platforms
enabling universities to better understand
and track student outcomes.
Domain-wide success measures:
• Students are satisfied with the University's digital learning environment and
University systems.
• Staff are satisfied with University systems.
PAE TATA 57
Priority 1
Develop a Digital Transformation Roadmap
Our current approach to addressing the University's information technology needs is
comprehensive and provides a clear workplan. However, the development of the scale of
digital transformation required to successfully implement it necessitates a different approach.
The new approach must articulate how digital systems will support the University to reach Pae
Tata, aligned with the domains.
Action: Building on our existing Information Technology Roadmaps, develop a Digital
Transformation Roadmap that clearly defines how we will use technology to enable the
University to deliver on our four domains over the short, medium, and long term.
Priority 2
Deliver a contemporary digital student experience
To ensure we can deliver on Priority 4 of the Education Domain: "Meet student needs with
best practice pedagogy, including more effective use of digital learning", we must enhance
digital delivery. Hybrid delivery for undergraduates can deliver greater flexibility, strengthen our
students' capability in an increasingly digital world, and enhance our distinctive on-campus
transformative student experience. We can also deliver more high-quality content through
distance and online learning; particularly for postgraduate taught, non-award (e.g., professional
development) options, and international pathway programmes.
Action: As part of our digital strategy, prioritise investment in digital learning solutions that
will enable the University to meet the emerging needs of students and remain competitive in
the New Zealand and overseas student markets.
PAE TATA 58
Priority 3
Streamline and update our systems and data landscape
Our current systems and data landscape do not support staff to work effectively. Many of our
systems are outdated, and our approach to data management does not support consistency,
quality, or accessibility to aid in decision-making. Our systems do not support the level of
automation and self-service required to reduce administrative burden on all our staff.
By updating and streamlining our systems and data landscape, we can improve efficiency, free
up staff time to focus on more productive and mission-critical tasks and increase the reliability
and quality of our data to support decision-making.
Action: Continue to redesign and consolidate our systems to work efficiently at scale,
prioritising systems that are critical to delivering this Strategic Plan.
Action: Identify opportunities for process automation in tandem with process streamlining
and improvement, including increasing self-service options (without passing undue
administrative burden onto staff).
Action: Ensure the University has the appropriate capability, capacity, and resourcing to
support improved Business Intelligence systems.
PAE TATA 59
PAE TATA 60