An introduction to our strategic refresh
A strategic refresh
While our mission to be a university for Tasmania and which makes a distinctive contribution
from Tasmania remains the same, much has changed since we set our strategy to guide us
between 2019-2024. We have navigated a highly disruptive pandemic, the global headwinds
and challenges we face have grown, Artificial Intelligence has arrived in force, and the higher
education sector faces the largest set of changes in more than a generation. But we are no
less resolute about our identity as a university or our determination to make a difference.
In the face of these challenges and changes, thanks to the 2nd in the world overall in 2024 in the Times Higher Education
determination of so many people we have made much Impact rankings, which measures impact against them,
progress against the objectives we set ourselves in our and number 1 in the world in Climate Action for three years
Strategic Plan 2019-2024. in a row, 2022-24. That is a result of work right across the
University, both academic and professional.
When we look to our students, we take pride in the
significantly increased access to the University for Tasmanians We now need to refresh our strategy to navigate this next
through initiatives like our Schools Recommendation era. There are important continuities we need to maintain
Program and broadening our scholarships. A revised between where we have come from and where we need to
curriculum with some strong distinctive place-based offerings go. We are still place-based. Our commitment to excellence
has seen our interstate student numbers grow markedly, in research and teaching has not changed. We have a passion
and more Tasmanian school-leavers are staying home to for our regions and their success. Connection to community
study. There is great teaching and great teachers across the is critical because it is the community we serve. We are still
University. The result is that our student outcomes are some of working to be a right-sized university, not one constantly
the best in the country, reflected by top-tier graduate income chasing growth. We always strive to ensure a concern
and employment rates amongst other things. Our regional for people is at the centre of our decision making. In the
presence has developed with a broader set of offerings, implementation of the previous strategy, sustainability in the
new facilities, and a reversal in trends of declining student broad sense of the SDGs emerged in practice as a powerful
numbers in the north-west and north compared to the governing idea, which helped organise many of our strategic
south. While COVID significantly disrupted our international efforts. That conclusion is the starting point for this next
students, we are successfully moving to a far greater diversity version of our strategy.
of students.
We are not setting a completely new direction. We are in
With our research, there is a deep satisfaction in research that an era that needs to be about skilful adaption to a world
we know matters and the joy that is found in discoveries. The that is constantly changing, rather than seeking to outrun
formal measures tell a strong story. We have seen continued it by pursuing massive changes and disruptions. Central
increases in funding, reaching the highest levels we have ever to refreshing this strategy has been the input of staff and
had. Our research is increasingly sustainable with more of its students across the University. The overall strategy and ideas
costs being met from the grants we receive. These excellent are shaped by that thinking and the ideas that emerged in
outcomes have come from a focus on what we are truly those conversations, which can be found summarised in our
good at, finding new ways to see our research have impact, document here.
and pursuing programmatic research characterised by
The strategic context, themes, and targets in this strategy
interdisciplinary collaborations.
document are intended to inform the teaching, research and
For everyone, this has been a challenging time and we have community engagement that is undertaken by our academic
much to do. At the same time, our commitment to safety units and supporting portfolios. This strategy is not intended
has seen a considerable and sustained improvement in key to be an exhaustive list of initiatives and actions across the
safety measures. These now sit well below national and sector institution. Rather, it is to provide a principle-level basis for
averages, including an extended period of no lost time injuries. local decisions about direction, priorities, and how we work.
We have also significantly reduced casual employment rates,
The refreshed strategy sets a long-term direction. Its horizon
as well as our gender pay gap. This gap now sits well below
is the next 25 years because much of what we need to
the national average and is the second lowest in the sector,
do will take time and sustained effort. We are in an era in
with gender pay equity now in sight.
which the needs of our community and world requires deep
Our foundational commitment to sustainability, expressed engagement, serious ambition and enduring commitments.
in part through the way we have organised around the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), has seen us ranked
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH
Strategic Plan
2025 Refresh
M A R C H 2 0 2 5
We acknowledge the Palawa/Pakana people of Lutruwita (Tasmania) and the Gadigal people of Sydney,
the traditional owners, and custodians of the land upon which we live and work. We pay respects to Elders
past and present as the knowledge holders and sharers. We honour their strong culture and knowledge
as vital to the self-determination, wellbeing, and strength of the community. We stand for a future that
profoundly respects and acknowledges Aboriginal perspectives, culture, language, and history.
2 ▲ Kelp water carrier making at a Riawunna event during Orientation week, Sandy Bay campus.
Contents
Our plan on a page 4
2050 5
Our foundations 6
Our University community 7
Our strategic context 8
Our place and mission 8
A time of global challenge and transition 9
The pressing transitions we need to make in Tasmania 10
Education 12
Health 13
Productivity 14
Climate 15
Tasmanian Stories 16
Australia's transition to a universal and managed higher education system 18
Inclusion 18
Accountability 18
Ways of working 18
The strengths we bring to the task 19
What is our strategy? 20
Mission focused 20
Grounded in Indigenous excellence and knowledge 22
Organised around sustainability 23
Characterised by a distinctive student experience and high quality teaching 24
Committed to excellence and impact through programmatic research 25
Ambitious about equity with excellence 26
Regionally networked 'with' and 'in' the community 27
Collectively stewarding our staff experience and University economics 28
How do we organise ourselves to pursue our strategy? 30
Devolved decision making 30
Purpose 30
Transitions 30
Regions 30
What needs to underpin all we do 32
Safety and Well-Being 32
Equity in all our practices 32
Building the culture we want 32
Strategic Plan - Outlook to 2050 33
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 3
Our plan on a page
Our Mission
To make a difference for Tasmania and a distinctive contribution from Tasmania:
• By fostering the intrinsic value of learning, discovery and creative expression and delivering the workforce
and professional training that Tasmania and Australia need.
• Working in partnership with community, industry and government to achieve bold changes in relation to
education, health, productivity and climate and give expression to our Tasmanian stories which enhance
life for Tasmanians and the world.
Our Strategy
• Grounded in Indigenous excellence and knowledge.
• Organised around sustainability.
• Characterised by a distinctive student experience and high quality teaching in all we do.
• Committed to programmatic research excellence and impact.
• Ambitious about equity with excellence in the context of an integrated education system.
• Regionally networked 'with' and 'in' the community.
• Collectively stewarding our staff experience and University economics.
Our Way of Working
• Prioritise safety and inclusion.
• Create a culture of trust and collaboration as we organise around purpose, empowerment and regions.
• Achieve sustainable workloads alongside sustainable economics operating at a sustainable scale, and
committed to environmental sustainability in our operations.
4 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
2050
Tasmania and the world need to make a huge transition between now and 2050 if we are to
have a sustainable, inclusive, prosperous, and stable society. Universities have a vital role to play
in providing the people and knowledge that will make that transition possible.
If we are to play that role, we need to be a place of hope that nurtures the belief that this better world is possible despite the
challenges we face. We need to be places of action where we play our role to make that future happen and to live tomorrow today.
Our opportunity as a university is to work with others to make Tasmania one of those unique places in the world, towards which
people look to understand how to navigate their way to a better future. We are part-way there. As a university, we can do so
much more to make Tasmania that kind of place. This strategy aims to provide us with a sense of direction about how we can
play that role.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 5
Students
field
trip
the
Tamar
Wetlands,
North
Tasmania.
Our foundations
While we look to the future, our story begins in deep time. Lutruwita has been sustainably
stewarded by Aboriginal peoples from a time when their country was still part of the great
southern peninsula of the continent.
It was the end of the last ice age - the world-changing climate change witnessed by Aboriginal people - that created this island.
We acknowledge their enduring ownership of this place and the vitality of Aboriginal culture.
As we work together to create a sustainable future, we need to draw on their deep wisdom to live with this country today, to hear
the truth about history spoken, to ensure justice for the wrongs of the past, and to see their enduring sovereignty is recognised
into the future.
6 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Riawunna
Opening
Inveresk
campus,
Launceston.
Our University community
Universities are a special form of community. Our University is constituted by students, staff,
the University Council and, in fullest expression, our graduates as well.
Our students are students, not customers or clients, for here learning is a collaborative endeavour, not a commercial enterprise.
Our connections are relational not transactional. It is why we embrace approaches to working together like 'students as partners'.
Equally, we seek to give expression to collegial qualities of the staff community through structures like the University Senate.
In this strategic refresh we look to ways to strengthen that character of the University.
The unique character of communities has led universities to have a vital role and unique responsibilities as civil institutions in free
societies. Our commitment to inquiry wherever it takes us is protected by our values of academic freedom and free speech and
the self-governance that is integral to securing those freedoms.
As humanity faces the challenges of the future, the role of university communities is increasingly important. They build the
adaptive capacity of a civil society. They strengthen our individual and collective ability to inquire openly, engage respectfully and
work creatively with differing values, worldviews and ideas about how we respond to the challenges we face while we pass on our
knowledge of the human and natural worlds to the next generation.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 7
Inveresk
campus
library,
Launceston.
Our strategic context
Our strategic context is defined by our place, the rapidly changing and challenging world in
which we live, and the new directions for higher education in Australia set out in the Australian
Universities Accord.
Our place and mission Where we work off our island, whether on the mainland
or in other countries, we seek to bring our Tasmanian
Our place is the starting point for our strategy, as it is for our
commitments and character to serve the communities in
mission. We are a University for Tasmania, and we draw on
those places.
what is unique here to make a distinctive national and global
contribution from Tasmania. It matters that we take the time The nature of our place brings great strengths and challenges.
and space to reflect on our place, its strengths, opportunities
and challenges. We may all characterise these in different There is a deep commitment to environmental sustainability
ways. Our strategy offers one interpretation, which doesn't amongst many people here. In many areas, we lead the
intend to be definitive but rather to signal where our strategic world. The remarkable natural qualities of Tasmania and the
conversations start. deep desire to protect them meant this was the first place
in the world where the Green political movement began. It
Our purpose is defined by our place. We were created to has seen 50.4% of our land protected, much of it as World
provide higher education for the islands of Tasmania, and Heritage area. We are one of the few jurisdictions in the world
all the members of the rich and varied communities that with a net zero carbon economy powered by nearly 100%
call Tasmania home. Therefore, our mission has always been renewable energy.
broad. We affirm the kind of civil society Tasmania wants to
be by making learning, inquiry, critique, creativity, thought We have strong communities, each deeply connected to
and imagination the lifeblood of our community. In equal their place. While Tasmania is an island, distances still divide
measure we serve Tasmania by providing the skills and us and each part is unique, with different social, cultural and
knowledge that are needed for the jobs and industries of economic challenges. It makes us a place of places. We need
today and tomorrow. Ours will always be a dual role. to care about each part, not just the whole. People want to
be a part of and contribute to each of these communities.
Place shapes our identities, interests, values and worldviews. People's passion for their place sometimes meets with
The history and character of the islands of Tasmania are a widely varied values and visions of the future, which can
constant reference point, from the ancient wisdom and divide us deeply. The value of a university to build capacity
culture of the Palawa/Pakana people through to the unique within the Tasmanian community to engage respectfully and
geography and ecology of lands and seas, the evolution of constructively is central to a flourishing future of our island.
our society, its institutions, and our communities. That rich
understanding of our place and its people is how we answer
what it means to be for or from Tasmania and what it means
to work with the community and each other.
8 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
The
Hazards,
Freycinet,
East-Coast
Tasmania.
While we have strong communities, they are also small. Size is low, and our environment is being harmed by climate
can be an advantage but also a challenge. With little more change and loss of habitat. Many communities still suffer
than 500,000 people and a rapidly ageing population, finding from the legacy of large enterprises being shut down by the
the resources and the expertise to do all that Tasmania needs forces of globalisation and not being replaced.
from that population alone, not least in higher education, can
Neither locally nor globally are these circumstances
be hard.
sustainable. In a very short time, the world and its places
Although we are small and often understated, Tasmania like Tasmania need to make a transition to be a zero-carbon,
does have a remarkable record of making globally distinctive circular, regenerative, productive, and inclusive economy and
contributions across the arts, the sciences, policy, and society. We have chosen to describe that transition in terms
commerce. We are quietly proud of our part in that story, and of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
we aspire to contribute much more to that record. We have done that not because they are a perfect measure of
sustainability but because they have become the currency of
A time of global challenge and transition cooperation to meet our global challenges.
While we have an island home, its past, present, and future As we navigate these challenges, we need to build on
are shaped by global forces. Aboriginal people in the history Tasmania's great strengths in being a global leader in making
of these lands brought knowledges of the wider Aboriginal these transitions from creating a zero-carbon energy system
and Torres Strait Islander world here long before the waters to protecting our natural environment.
rose. Colonisation brutally visited the island and laid the
foundations for our current society. Since then, we have We also will need to harness powerful new technologies like
become integrated into a global economic system. artificial intelligence (AI) to ensure they serve progress rather
than undermine it. As we do that, we need to strengthen the
Now we are living with the global consequences of that deep ethical instinct in Tasmania to ask, just because we can
economic system. For all the extraordinary material and do it does that mean we should do it? Across the breadth
technological progress it has brought, that system has of this agenda - technical, creative, human, and ethical -
given rise to climate and ecological crises, and ever growing universities like ours play a central role.
inequalities and instability within society. We need to tackle
these challenges in a world where we now face headwinds We know the transition will require new forms of knowledge
of many kinds, from geopolitical competition and resource about how we live sustainably on the planet and that our
scarcity to an ageing population and low productivity. greatest resource for this task is a deep dialogue with first
peoples everywhere and, for us, with the Palawa and Pakana
These global forces shape our place in Tasmania. They people of the islands.
contribute to the deep inequalities in education, health, and
wealth that we experience, and the fact that our productivity Our publication 'Point of Choice' provides a full account of
these global challenges.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 9
Greenhill
Observatory,
Bisdee
Tier,
Tasmania.
The pressing transitions we need to
make in Tasmania
Forces global and local combine to present Tasmania with a series of very pressing challenges.
It is important for us to identify the ones we want to play a central role in tackling because as
a university we can't do everything. We need to create focus if we want to see impact.
We have chosen to make four challenges our organising Bold goals also avoid the counsel of timidity to only try to
priorities: education, health, productivity, and climate. And change what you directly control. When you are committed
to add to our priorities a fifth great task, which is to nurture to working with community, government and industry, goals
our Tasmanian stories in all their forms to ground us in our can be as broad as your partnerships.
place and help us imagine our way into a more hopeful
Although we are pursuing these goals for Tasmania, they are
future. Some might see tackling these issues as matters
all critical national and global issues. Each presents important
for government alone. We think the strength of liberal
opportunities to make distinctive contributions from
democracies is that they can harness the full breadth of
Tasmania. As we tackle some of them, we may find ourselves
society to tackle the complex issues we face. In a society
becoming a national provider of the knowledge and skills.
and economy where new knowledge and skills are needed
This has already occurred, for example, in areas of health and
to tackle pressing, multifaceted and apparently intractable
medicine like nursing and paramedicine, and in the maritime
problems, universities have a large role to play if we are to
world. We will welcome those opportunities to expand our
achieve aspirational goals.
ability to make a difference. Our focus on impact has made us
Of course, for all we can contribute, progress depends on a global leader. For three years in a row, we have been ranked
long-term partnerships - with community, with industry, number one in the world for climate action in the Times
with government, and with other educational institutions. Higher Education Impact Rankings scheme. We have risen to
Those partnerships need to be founded in bold and be highly ranked overall and in many of the other individual
shared aspirations. categories, which are based on the SDGs.
It is all too easy to be sceptical or cynical about bold The fact that these are complex societal challenges means
aspirations. But universities bring out the best in themselves we need a holistic approach. While there is important
when they galvanise the energy, commitment, and technical knowledge needed to improve health, education,
imagination of bold and, at times, even unthinkable goals. In environmental and other outcomes, they all require changes
challenging times universities need to be places of possibility in our social, economic, and political system. We are fortunate
and hope. They need to speak from the liberating idealism of to be a university with expertise across all of these domains,
the youthful energy that is drawn to them, and which should through our staff and also our students, including our Higher
always be cherished. Degree by Research (HDR) students.
10 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Week,
Podium
Building,
Melville
Street,
Hobart.
Equally, often the most powerful force for change is not As we think about these tasks of meeting the challenges
policy but imagination and creativity - these can prompt us of the future there are many ways we could characterise
to see the world differently. Compelling works of literature, the themes we organise around. The ones we have chosen
art, drama, and music can change minds, attitudes, and reflect many conversations about how best to organise
perspectives in ways little else can. These are strengths we our capabilities and structures to tackle the challenges we
have, which have an integral role to play. see. There is no perfect answer, but choosing a structure to
organise our efforts will help us to make a difference. One
Our critical role to support these vital societal transitions
topic we will need to continue to debate as to whether it
requires the work we do across the humanities and social
should be a theme is inequality. Each of our current themes
sciences. Our commitment to make these societal transitions
seeks to tackle inequality and they all exist at least in part
and our vision of what is possible are founded in the rich and
because of it. However, there may be other ways to address
deep understandings of human life and society, nurtured
it that we also need to explore.
by the strength of our scholarship in the humanities and
social sciences. We need our classicists, historians, literary As we describe these challenges it would be easy to see
scholars, philosophers, and social scientists to give us access them as deficits. Instead, we see them as challenges to be
to the hard-won insights into the human condition, with all tackled, which are born of the way our current global systems
its opportunities and vulnerabilities, and to reflect on the operate rather than failings of a particular place or people. As
challenging questions that need to animate any period of we tackle them, we will amplify what works while seeking to
major societal change. change what doesn't.
For that work in helping us adapt to change, we always want
to affirm the intrinsic importance to our very identity as a
society and as individuals of curiosity-driven inquiry into the
human and natural world. The ability to be a society that
values and commits to nurturing and growing the store of
human knowledge and wisdom as an expression of what it is
to be a human and good society is central to the world we are
trying to preserve and secure for the future.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 11
Image
courtesy
the
artist
(Kevin
Perkins)
and
Bett
Gallery.
Photo:
Jack
Bett.
Education
More than ever before our future depends on a population 87 in New Town; these places are only 20 kilometres apart
with levels of educational attainment growing in line with but differ significantly in socio-economic status and rates
the rapidly changing requirements of the workforce for ever of educational attainment. In Bridgewater-Gagebrook, the
higher degrees of knowledge and skill. The Accord highlights percentage of school leavers to progress to higher education
that to meet future workforce needs, we need at least 90% was 6.3% in 2023, five times lower than the rate in New Town
of Tasmanian students to receive a compelling and relevant of 33.6%.
education that sees them complete year 12 to a level that
Poorer health, income and life expectancy are all correlated
enables progression to university or TAFE. Today we are a very
with lower levels of educational attainment. Comparing
long way from this level of attainment. Students studying
Australians with a bachelor's degree to those with no post-
subjects which need to be built on throughout secondary
school qualification, those with a bachelor's degree have a
school, like mathematics, physics, chemistry, music, and
10% lower comorbidity rate, are 33% less likely to have diabetes
languages, are in dramatic decline, and the absolute numbers
and earn 65% more per week.
studying these subjects are small. Many of these STEM
subjects are vital to Tasmania and Australia's long-term We know this can be changed. Education systems around the
productivity, prosperity, and supply of new high-quality jobs. world have turned these sorts of results around. Universities
Compounding the challenge, Australia-wide standards in have a vital role to play, especially in a jurisdiction like ours
STEM education have been in long-term decline. Equally, if where we train most of the teachers and other professionals
languages and music were no longer taught in Tasmanian that work across so many of the socio-economic issues that
schools, which we are on track to see within the decade, affect educational attainment. For that change to happen
we would culturally and in many other ways be much the we need to join with other champions in the community
poorer for it. to elevate the value placed on education and to lift the
sense of aspiration and possibility. Placing that value on it
We also need to address the needs of those adults who in
means caring about education from those first vital 1000
previous years were not adequately prepared to participate in
days of a child's life right through to the end of our days. Our
higher education; this shows up in Tasmania currently having
commitment to education is not to a few post school years
a bachelor's attainment rate below the national average, and
but to the whole of life.
significantly below in our regional areas. This means providing
offerings that enable life-long learning and upskilling so To tackle these inequalities and give Tasmanians the
that people have an opportunity to participate and succeed opportunity to flourish in challenging times while meeting
in higher education. Transforming educational outcomes the future skill needs of our communities, we have a clear
doesn't just matter because it gives every person the best objective aligned with the Universities Accord to see 90%
opportunity to fulfil their potential and to be equipped to of Tasmanian school students well prepared for tertiary
navigate the challenging era, but because it is the single education by 2050. We also need to work with TasTAFE to
most powerful lever we have to address the serious structural meet the overall Accord target of 80% of the working age
inequalities in the State. population having a post-school qualification by 2050.
Those inequalities are especially evident in differing life In responding to these challenges we will be addressing SDG
expectancies. Overall, Tasmania continues to have the second 1: No Poverty; SDG 4: Quality Education; SDG 16: Peace, Justice,
lowest life expectancy of any Australian jurisdiction after and Strong Institutions; and SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities.
the Northern Territory. Within Tasmania, life expectancy by
region spans 20 years, from 67 in Bridgewater-Gagebrook to
12 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Taroona
Primary
Bush
Class,
Hobart.▼
Health
If we are to tackle these inequalities and see all Tasmanians Our objective is to narrow substantially the life expectancy
live a long and healthy life, we also need to see a very gap so that Tasmania reaches the national average by
different health system - one that is focused on delivering 2050, and in doing so reduce the gaps between Tasmanian
services that meet the needs of our community. Primary and regions. We don't just want longer lives, we want people to
community healthcare systems have not evolved to meet be healthier and see the burden of major chronic diseases
the changing healthcare needs of the community. This has (measured using disability-adjusted life years lost) fall below
resulted in an overburdened acute care system that is unable the national average by 2050.
to effectively deliver timely or planned care. The result is not
In responding to these challenges we will be addressing SDG
just people dying younger than they should in our regions, it
3: Good Health and Well-being; SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities;
is rates of chronic disease well above the national average and
and SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities.
costs that are straining the State budget.
Yet Tasmania is a place with great opportunities to create the
foundations for good health through a healthy diet, exercise,
social connection and engagement with the outdoors.
To realise that possibility we need to build an approach
to health that treats it holistically and recognises its critical
social, cultural, behavioural and economic determinants.
That starting point means tackling inequality and
discrimination in our society more broadly, and the ways
it is embedded in our health system will be integral to our
effort to improve outcomes.
In our communities, the way we think about our health needs
to be as much about sustaining and improving wellness as
it is preventing illness. Supporting that change, our health
system needs to give a far greater focus and priority to
primary and preventative care. Improving health outcomes
is a mission as important for our social scientists and
economists as it is for our health professions. When any form
of health care is required, it needs to be holistic, coordinated,
team-based, patient-centred, and evidence-based. If we can
achieve our educational goals and build this approach to
health, then Tasmania can have the healthiest population
in the country.
The health education and research we do across the
University in pursuit of healthy longer lives in Tasmania can
provide for better lives nationally and globally.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 13
West
Park
Nursing
Simulation
Lab,
Burnie.
Productivity
Tasmania's productivity lags behind the already low While existing companies and industries need to adapt,
productivity of the nation. Productivity is critical to seeing critical to driving productivity improvements is the creation
incomes improve and surpluses created to invest in of new rapidly growing business. They are the business
education, health, and climate transitions. that create the most new jobs and quality jobs. They attract
capital and talented people. They create the new companies
We can address the challenge in part through improved
that replace those being overrun by competition. They are
participation in education. We can also build productivity
born by solving problems that matter to people. They are
through the content of curriculum, for example by
commonly founded on the sort of technological capabilities
embedding a focus on innovation and simplification in our
and breakthroughs you find in universities. Tasmania needs
business programs so our graduates are equipped to drive
far more of them and a thriving start-up sector. We are well
those improvements. Our focus is not on just any productivity
positioned to contribute significantly to this new enterprise
improvements. Our concern is the gains that can come from
creation through the commercialisation of new knowledge
the transition to a more sustainable, equitable and inclusive
and building of entrepreneurial skills.
economy. That means the productivity gains we pursue need
to reduce inequality rather than increase it. We need to see All of this will be greatly assisted by the sort of policy and
that the greatest gains are made and shared with those on legal reforms that we are well positioned to develop
lower income levels. and recommend.
Importantly, if the productivity gains that we enable, like Our objective is to see Tasmanian productivity exceed the
developing new technologies, reduce the need for less national average by 2050, which means over time the gaps
skilled labour, we need to ensure our work supports the in income and wealth between Tasmania and the rest of
reskilling of people so they can move into higher paying the nation will close.
roles. As a university working collaboratively with TAFE, we
In responding to these challenges we will be
are uniquely positioned to ensure we support an equity
addressing SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth;
enhancing approach to productivity gains. Whatever role we
SDG 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure; and SDG 10:
play, we need to make sure our social scientists, ethicists, and
Reduced Inequalities.
economists reflect together on the holistic nature of the social
and economic changes in which we are involved.
Increased productivity means we need to see Tasmanian
industry transform. Key existing major industries like
agriculture, aquaculture, and mining need to continually
lift their productivity while simultaneously becoming deeply
sustainable. We need to be the advisors, researchers, and
partners for those changes. We need to remember that it will
be our technical and scientific knowledge that will be vital.
Equally, the creative arts sector has rich opportunities
to grow and add significant value to the economy as it
enriches society.
14 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Students
Home
Hill
Winery,
Ranelagh,
southern
Tasmania.▼
In all the work we do, our aspiration is to move beyond
mitigation to the development of regenerative practices
where we are thriving as part of the natural world, including
in those times when more extreme events occur, rather than
seeking to limit the harm it does to us.
Ultimately, we want to arrest the change and stabilise
our climate through the rapid transition to a zero-carbon
economy and society. We are ideally located to lead that work.
Tasmania is one of the few places on the planet that has
already achieved a net zero-emissions profile which, when
combined with abundant renewable energy assets and deep
commitment to sustainability, provides an opportunity to
embrace and promote a truly climate positive strategy.
Tasmania has maintained net zero-emissions because our
forests remove more carbon from the atmosphere (about
13 million tonnes per annum) than we emit from our cars,
trucks, industry, agriculture and other processes (about 8
million tonnes per annum). While this positive outcome sets
Tasmania apart, this has not come about through active
changes to bring down Tasmanian emissions, as the amount
of 'absolute' (or 'gross') emissions that Tasmania produces
has not changed significantly over the last 30 years. While
national emissions have declined by 6% over the last 12
months, Tasmania has increased its per capita emissions in all
categories except waste. Further, the carbon removed by our
forests is expected to decline over time as many plantations
mature and are harvested simultaneously, highlighting the
Climate
need to cut emissions. Tasmania can be an example to the
world on climate action, but more can and needs to be done.
Our climate is in crisis. It is a crisis with the gravest of
Tasmania needs to strive to reduce gross emissions across
implications for our natural and human world, exacerbating
the entire economy to maintain our net-zero status and
the ecological crisis and challenges that already exist in our
future-proof our industries and the communities that depend
natural and production landscapes. We are seeing the impact
on them. The State's renewable energy assets and world-
of a changing climate in Tasmania - from the ever-increasing
leading emissions profile stand us in good stead to capitalise
damage from floods, fires and storms, to having some of
upon the development of niche zero-emissions technology,
the most rapidly warming waters in the world, and droughts
infrastructure, and processes, both to grow our economy and
caused by changing patterns of rainfall to the threatening
make a meaningful contribution to national decarbonisation
changes to our fragile world heritage ecosystems. We are
efforts. We also have important opportunities to capture more
seeing the human cost, with those most vulnerable already
carbon through changed agricultural practices, regenerated
suffering disproportionately. That is only set to worsen.
landscapes, and in the marine world.
We urgently need to create a climate safe world - a world
We have leading global expertise in engineering, chemistry,
where we understand how and why our climate is changing
and discovering critical minerals like copper and rare earths,
and the impacts on our island home and beyond, where we
which will all be vital to the global transition to a zero-carbon
act to arrest the change, and mitigate and become resilient
economy. We have a track record in sustainable architecture
to the harms we can't stop.
and design as well as expertise in carbon accounting, natural
With distinctive capabilities like our Antarctic and Southern capital valuation and resource economics, which will be
Ocean program, we are very well positioned to make leading critically important capabilities to drive the transition.
global contributions to understanding global climate change.
More broadly, the transition will require policy, legal, and social
Our deep geospatial and ecological capabilities mean we can
change of considerable complexity. None of it will happen
help the world understand the implications of these changes
without minds changing through persuasion, diplomacy, and
for the urban and natural worlds.
education. We are fortunate to have real experts across all
We are also positioned to respond. these fronts, who can play an important and necessary role.
We have expertise in saving species threatened by the Our objective is to make critical global contributions to
changes to our natural world on land and sea, and knowledge understanding climate change, especially as it relates to
about how to regenerate already damaged terrestrial the processes of the Southern Ocean and Antarctic and its
and marine ecosystems. Our engineers can make our impacts on our terrestrial systems, to see Tasmania be a
communities more resilient; our fire scientists can make our world-leading jurisdiction in moving toward a truly zero-
towns and cities safer and our wild places less vulnerable. Our emissions economy by 2040, and to have supported the
accountants are global leaders in how to account for climate creation of a resilient Tasmania so the impact of weather
and ecological impacts. Our lawyers can design the new events is no greater in real terms than it was in the year 2000.
regulatory regimes. Our economists, sociologists and public
In responding to these challenges we will be addressing SDG
policy experts can advise on the necessary complementary
7: Affordable and Clean Energy; SDG 11: Sustainable Cities
changes that will be needed across all those fronts.
and Communities; SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and
Production; SDG 13: Climate Action; SDG 14: Life Below Water;
and SDG 15: Life on Land.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 15
The
Thwaites
Glacier,
West
Antarctic
Ice
Sheet.
Tasmanian Stories
We meet these challenges as a university deeply committed Stories matter. If we don't remember our past, we don't know
to our place. Our place grounds our identity, shapes our who we are and are less able to connect meaningfully with
values, provides sources of solace, hope and joy. It offers people with different stories. Our histories are our communal
lessons and wisdom, which are vital to all humanity. We memory. Yet, some of our most important narratives remain
give expression to our place in our stories, in our Tasmanian untold, poorly understood, or fail to capture the true diversity
stories, whether we tell them in words, music, film or art, and of peoples and experiences that made up our past. There are
even in our buildings. They include histories of our complex difficult and dark tales of invasion, genocide and incarceration
past, reflective accounts of the realities of our communities that need to be told if we are ever to be whole. There
and lives today, and imaginative explorations and dreamings are stories from deep time on the Island that need to be
about our future. They live in the dialogue between the honoured, protected, and, where appropriate, shared. Some
realities of our place and our imaginations. They matter to us. of those stories may prove foundational to our future identity
Those in other places tell us they matter to them. and sustainable life on these islands.
Our stories can cross social and economic divides. They reveal Stories are a Tasmanian strength. This island has produced
the diversity and richness of our communities, not least remarkable writers and critics, composers and musicians,
here in Tasmania. In helping us to understand and value artists, historians, architects, and other storytellers. We must
our diversity and our common humanity, they can unite us create spaces for fresh voices to emerge and tell new stories.
and create the social cohesion that empowers us to resist It matters to our future that more extraordinary Tasmanian
the local and global centrifugal forces, which can too easily stories are told and that they reach more people, that every
take hold here. They are essential to help the members of Tasmanian feels connected to our stories. These stories are
our community make sense of and engage with the major not just Tasmanian tales. They are Tasmanian realities that
changes and transitions that need to take place in Tasmania. we must address. They are not there to be appropriated
They contribute directly to strengthening a sense of for cultural expressions, entertainment and imagination.
belonging and confidence amongst our community and they Their expressions of our realities reflect our society and
enhance our wellbeing. environment, they drive science forward, and just as
importantly, affect and shape the development of a resilient
Stories, which are our own, are at the heart of learning to
and enlightened Tasmanian community.
read and write, to perform, to compose and play music and
sing, and to make and respond to art. Tales of our places, our We have a role to play to strengthen the culture and the
diverse realities, which use our names and words can make industry of Tasmanian stories - their creation and their
the undervalued or overlooked feel seen; they can remind us sharing. We too build on strengths. We are a university
of the intrinsic value of learning, of being curious and creative. fortunate to have our own music, theatre, art and writing
That is all-important in a community with low levels of literacy. programs with compelling writers and significant historians.
Where we can help bring these stories to life, we have the They all take their place in strong creative communities often
opportunity to connect the University with the daily lives of all richly peopled with alumni from our programs.
Tasmanians. As we do that, we help to meet our goal to make
the University a more accessible and inviting place.
16 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Trisha
Striker,
2023
Green
Gown
Awards
nominee.▼
In Tasmania our stories are important to our economics as Our objectives are to see a consistent increase in the
well as our identity. We recognise the importance and value publication and performance of Tasmanian stories in all their
in strengthening the way our creative output can support the forms, to see all Tasmanians empowered to know and engage
livelihoods of our creative communities and everyone who with their stories and stories from elsewhere, evidenced
works with them. through increased engagement in creative community
events in Tasmania, and to ensure, as part of our contribution
Strengthening our relationship with those creative
to the necessary truth telling on this island, that the untold
communities and exploring the possibilities of deeper
stories of our past are both told and publicly remembered.
partnerships will be an imperative. Finding new sources of
funding outside traditional areas for the creation of these In responding to these challenges we will be addressing SDG
stories needs to be a priority. 4: Quality Education; SDG 5: Gender Equality; SDG 10: Reduced
Inequalities; and SDG 16 Peace Justice and Strong Institutions.
We need to remember the power of stories is not confined
At least as importantly, we will be addressing the deeply
to the Humanities, Creative Arts, and Social Sciences but
human foundations needed to progress any of these goals,
must be a current through all disciplinary knowledges and
which aim to provide people in their particular communities
practices, so that we communicate truth and meaning
with a sense of identity, purpose, meaning, and hope.
effectively, for and with our communities. Creating
compelling narratives as we navigate the great transition our
Tasmanian and global society needs to make will be pivotal
to that journey.
Focusing on stories reminds us not just of the importance of
the stories themselves but of the importance of learning to
listen to them, to share them, and to perform them. How that
telling and listening happens matters. It needs to lift us up
because it is done with compassion and a desire to connect
and strengthen community.
Nurturing the creation, sharing, and performing of Tasmanian
stories needs to be an organising priority for us across
the University.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 17
Bachelor
Music
student
Elijah
Davies,
performing
jazz
The
Hedberg,
Hobart.
Australia's transition to a universal and managed
higher education system
Central to Australia's efforts to adapt to our changing world is the reform of our higher
education system. These reforms offer the prospect of greatly supporting our Tasmanian
mission, with their focus on inclusion, accountability, and our ways of working.
Inclusion Accountability
Having signalled that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander We need to recognise what a profound shift a managed
Peoples need to be at the centre of higher education systems, system will be. Many of these shifts strongly reinforce our
the starting point of the Accord's redesign of the system is mission to be for and from Tasmania.
that by 2050, 80% of jobs will require tertiary education.
As the single university in Tasmania, it won't just be a choice
To prepare Australians for this future, many underrepresented that we serve the State, it will be an objective to which a
groups will need to be brought into the higher education regulator holds us accountable.
system and, as outlined previously, schools will need to see
A managed system also raises the bar for attracting students
90% of their students ready to go on to enter and succeed
from outside Tasmania, whether they are coming to the
in university or TAFE. In practice, this means we are moving
island, or we are teaching them at our Rozelle campus in
from a mass to a universal tertiary education system where,
New South Wales, or online. In a managed system where
essentially, just as children go from primary to secondary
there are universities around the country, the strongest
school, they will go on to tertiary education.
justification for funding students from elsewhere is where
We know what a difference meeting that goal would make in our offering is truly distinctive and can't be obtained where
Tasmania to achieve better and more equal lives for all. the student is from. The premium on distinctiveness, which
is already a fundamental part of our strategy, has become
A universal system that aims to include people with a diversity
critical. For us, it is even more important because, with such
of needs requires a needs-based funding system. The Federal
a small population in Tasmania, we need interstate students
Government's Accord plan aims to do just that.
to ensure we have the critical mass to sustain important areas
Today, virtually everyone with the qualifications to of the University.
attend university is offered a place. For tertiary education
participation to grow, pathways programs will be very Ways of working
important. These programs enable those adults who are not The reforms also recognise that some universities like
prepared for higher education to get the skills they need to ours operate more like a small university system as we
participate and succeed. The funding of these programs is a seek to meet very different needs, from supporting the
central feature of the architecture of the Accord reforms. transformation of the healthcare system, to providing an
outstanding music or creative arts education. In other
The Accord also recognises that creating access to education
countries an education mission as broad as ours would
requires it to be present in communities, especially in
probably be delivered by between 2-4 smaller universities.
significantly underrepresented areas like regional Australia.
This is an invitation to us to be more innovative in how
With increased funding for community Study Hubs and
we operate.
teaching regional students, universities' physical presence
in communities is set to increase significantly, as tertiary We welcome that innovation because the previous era of
education becomes as integral to communities as reform sought to create mass higher education by making
school education. massive universities. We are an average size Australian
university but that makes us five times bigger than an
With changes that are as ambitious as they are necessary,
average US university and three times bigger than a UK
the Government proposes we move from our current
university. To manage this huge scale, the Government has
market-driven higher education system to a managed one.
used regulatory and legislative controls and reporting. Our
International students will be part of that managed approach
view is that this push to scale and management by regulation
to help Australia have a more balanced migration system.
has contributed to universities being too large, bureaucratic,
The changes in goals, funding and the management of hierarchical and complex. Too often this leads to workload
higher education are the most fundamental shift in the sector issues for staff, low levels of engagement with the overall
since the reforms of the late 1980s and early 1990s when the 'university', risk aversion, a loss of agility, a concern for inputs
move from an elite to a mass higher education system began. and process rather than outcomes and an inward rather than
outward focus as we seek to manage all that complexity.
For Tasmania, these changes should be very positive.
Realising those educational goals would transform lives and
economic outcomes in Tasmania. They are changes that are
very supportive of mission-driven universities like ours, where
we already actively manage our University to deliver what
the State and nation needs from us. The change in funding
is very welcome because we already meet a greater diversity
of deeper needs than most universities albeit without the
funding system to support it.
18 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
The strengths we bring to the task
We are fortunate to have great strengths as a University to bring to these challenges. They are
central to defining who we are today, and they are what we need to build on for the future.
Our place is a strength. We live on a remarkable and We have outstanding students who achieve at the highest
distinctive island with unique natural and Indigenous levels and make contributions, both here in Tasmania
heritages and a recent history that encompasses the and around the world, as distinguished as those from any
extremes of human experiences, from genocide and Australian university.
the inhumanities of transportation to being a place of
Our distinctive offerings not only serve Tasmanian students
scientific exploration and unique artistic expression and
well but attract very talented students from around Australia
social innovation.
and around the world. We have campuses in three of the
We have remarkably talented people who are incredibly State's regions and in New South Wales, which continue to
committed to their work, their colleagues, Tasmania and be significantly strengthened. Our Burnie and Launceston
their communities wherever they work. We have some of campuses now provide world-class facilities, which also
the most innovative teachers you will find anywhere. We deeply reflect the local character of their place.
have cutting-edge researchers and research strengths in
We have alumni right across Tasmania and around the world
areas that are critical for Tasmania and make great use of
who are deeply committed to Tasmania and the kinds of
Tasmania's location, while contributing significantly to global
values that are central to our mission. Our alumni and others
priorities. We have musicians, composers, creative artists, and
who support our mission and values provide ever greater
writers who all make distinctive contributions to Tasmania's
philanthropic support to the University.
ever more highly recognised and globally significant artistic
scene. We have professional staff who care deeply about the We also have the privilege and responsibility of being the sole
experience of staff and students and find innovative ways higher education provider on the island, which enables deep
every day to improve it. and longer-term partnerships with the community, industry,
and government.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 19
UniSport
Rowing
team.
What is our strategy?
The purpose of our strategy is to help make decisions that enable us to coordinate our efforts
to deliver on our mission within the constraints, opportunities and challenges presented by
our strategic context. Where the challenges are big and could be tackled in various ways, and
resources are limited, aligning our efforts is particularly important. Strategy is about making
choices and setting priorities.
The following strategic themes are intended to provide broad How well we deliver it by way of our teaching and research
direction for decision-making across the institution. What this will determine our funding and success as a university. The
looks like in practice needs to be defined by the purpose of centrality of the mission means purpose is what we test all
that part of the University. Sometimes that will be at a broad we do against.
level such as in the case of Health and Medicine, where its
When we talk about purpose, we don't mean broad vague
many parts need to be coordinated to help meet our key
objectives, which could justify almost any activity. We
objective around the transformation of the whole healthcare
intend it to mean a very clear outcome, which enhances life
system. In other cases, it will be at the academic unit level
in Tasmania and/or in the world, which we can practically
such as Engineering, where it needs to determine what these
organise ourselves around.
strategic themes mean for the future engineers we produce
and the engineering research we want to do. For most of the Purpose shapes who we want our students to be, the
University, there should only be two levels of strategy - the experience we want them to have and why we want to
whole of university strategy and a local level strategy. teach them. In a managed system with domestic students,
that purpose is clear as we fulfil our dual role to foster the
Mission focused intrinsic value of learning, discovery and creative expression
Our mission is to be a university that makes a difference as well as to deliver the workforce and professional training
for Tasmania and a distinctive contribution from Tasmania that Tasmania and Australia need. In Tasmania we need to
to the world. It is the starting point of our strategy. It is a be particularly clear that we are delivering the workforce
shorthand statement to remind us of what our focus should Tasmania needs not just in numbers, but with the particular
be. In the Accord era this will be more important than ever capability required to meet Tasmanian community needs.
because, as we observed, being for and from Tasmania is not
just what we choose, it is what we will be accountable for.
20 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Dr.
Swee-Hoon
Chuah
with
students
the
Behavioral
Lab,
Hobart.
Purpose needs partnerships. It means working with ▶ Goals and accountability: With domestic students,
people. Deep engagement with community, industry and our goals in relation to our professional courses are
government will be critical to our success in delivering much to consistently meet a scorecard agreed with the
of our mission. Creating enduring partnerships needs to be a Australian Tertiary Education Commission to deliver the
central strategy of our mission focus. workforce Tasmania needs, and, at the societal level
The theme of purpose will govern not just our approach to in Tasmania, to meet the targets for broadly educated
domestic students but international ones as well. Our focus in citizens and creative professionals as agreed to through
Australia needs to be to attract international students to what the Accord process. In the national markets we serve,
we distinctively offer so they are here for a unique education we expect this will include a goal to sustain above
experience rather than migration opportunities. national average employer satisfaction levels.
More broadly, we want to see the education of domestic and With international students our goal is to achieve a
international students alike enriched by having a modest diversity of quality students across a wide range of our
number of students from a diversity of countries across all courses. Overall, we aim to have about 20% of our total
our courses. Balance and diversity will not only enhance cohort being international students, and no more than
student experience but also improve our resilience against one third coming from any one country. Where we
international shocks, which in the past have disrupted deliver in-country, we will look for clear alignment of
inflows of students from a small number of countries that our offerings with our commitment to the Sustainable
represented a high proportion of our international student
Development Goals. We pick up our research goals in
cohort. Given our strong sustainability commitments and
the section below.
distinctive offerings, we should explore ways to offer our
courses in other countries where doing so would advance our
joint aspirations for a sustainable world.
When it comes to research our purposes need to be equally
clear. Where it is focused on impact we encourage people
to use our Tasmanian Societal Impact Model, which is
recognised as a sector-leading approach globally, as a starting
point for defining what the purpose is for our work and how
we can deliver on this purpose.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 21
Rozelle
campus,
Sydney.
Grounded in Indigenous excellence and knowledge
If being for Tasmania is to be meaningful, we need to begin ▶ Goals and accountability: We will hold ourselves
with a commitment to support the flourishing of Aboriginal accountable by ensuring Indigenous students succeed
people and to honour their knowledges in all that we do. at the same or greater rates than non-Indigenous
Equally, Indigenous knowledge and practice will enrich our students and that Indigenous people are represented
understanding of how to relate to the world and will greatly amongst staff and students in greater proportion
advance our sustainability agenda. Therefore, we will prioritise than their presence in the general population and
in time, resources, and attention programs to support the
proportionately at all levels of the university. We expect
educational participation and excellence of Aboriginal and
to see year-on-year increases in the number of units
Torres Strait Islander students and ask all academic units to
and University operations and activities engaging with
incorporate an engagement with Indigenous knowledges
Indigenous knowledges and practices.
in their teaching and research programs. We recognise that
for this to occur we need Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders
proportionately represented at all levels of the University.
22 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Students
and
faculty
gathered
the
Riawunna
Centre,
Sandy
Bay
campus,
Hobart.
Organised around sustainability
Sustainability is a core organising theme and priority for change and threatened ecologies to overcoming inequalities
our teaching, research, and the way we run the University. in health and education. There was a recognition that to do
Where both the world and Tasmania face a huge challenge this we would need to work in more interdisciplinary ways
to transition to a sustainable way of living with the planet in by drawing on all STEM and HASS (Humanities and Social
a very short time, we need to make sure it is embedded in all Sciences) capabilities and find new ways of organising
we do. We use the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ourselves to overcome traditional silos. We should also have
as the framework for organising around sustainability not a focus on solving Tasmanian challenges first and then
because they are perfect but because they map the breadth applying those learnings globally.
of sustainability (environmental, social, and economic) and
In the operation of the University, there is a strong
are sufficiently used globally that they facilitate the necessary
commitment to moving from being a net-zero greenhouse
collaboration with other organisations committed to
gas emitting university to being a no-emissions university
sustainability. Our University is world-leading in sustainability
as fast as possible, as we simultaneously drive toward zero
education and research and in the way we manage our
embodied carbon and circular economy buildings. There is
operations. Our leadership is the result of the passionate
a recognition we need to redouble our efforts to reduce the
efforts of staff and students across the whole institution,
carbon footprint of our transport, not least from air transport
many of whom provided valuable input during the strategy
and our vehicles. There is a similarly strong commitment
refresh process that has shaped the way we will organise
to see us accelerate our broader contributions to creating
around sustainability in future.
a circular economy to eliminate waste and to tackling
We have a clear aspiration to be the world leader in food poverty.
sustainability education, with sustainability themes
Our Strategic Framework for Sustainability provides details
embedded across our curriculum supported by innovative
of how we will continue to put this strategy into action across
and more team-based teaching. Our teaching will have a
the institution.
strong emphasis on learning in the field, workplace and
community, cultural sustainability, and equipping our
▶ Goals and accountability: We will keep ourselves
students with the skills and knowledge needed to be the
accountable to the goal of embedding sustainability
future leaders that will drive the changes needed.
in everything we do through achieving and sustaining
To make sure all our work is mission aligned and organised Platinum Status in the Sustainability Tracking
around sustainability we will shift the focus of our Assessment & Rating System (STARS) (which covers
international education to offerings that can support the a broad range of sustainability measures across
sustainability agendas of other countries whether delivered as
environmental, social and other domains and is held
transnational education in country or in Australia.
by only 13 universities world-wide) and continue to be
Our research needs to continue to prioritise our strengths highly ranked in the Times Higher Education Impact
across the sustainability agenda, from tackling climate Rankings, which assess us against the SDGs.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 23
Students
field
trip
the
Tamar
Wetlands,
North
Tasmania.
Characterised by a distinctive student experience and high quality teaching
Distinctiveness in content and student experience is what as an integral part of creating a distinctive and inclusive
we need to characterise all our courses. Distinctiveness experience, connecting students to place and each other. It
expresses our place-based identity, is critical to delivering our means we want community and relationships, not individual
mission and is central to sustaining our student numbers, transactions, to characterise a student's experience with
which is why it is such an important strategic theme for us. the University, their teachers and their peers. It is why we
Distinctiveness can be delivered through in-person or online are restoring a collegiate model of student accommodation
teaching. We need both if we are to meet our objectives for rather than just providing 'student beds'.
participation and to be able to engage students off the Island
Our institutional distinctiveness should be visible in the
to have sufficient scale to support our operation on the Island.
lives of graduates. To help us achieve that objective we have
We recognise that each model of delivery is distinct and, to
chosen a specific set of graduate attributes, which have given
the greatest extent we can, we should not be trying to do
expression to our strategy. We know that continuing to build
them simultaneously.
a distinctive teaching and student experience will require
What distinctiveness means varies by the purpose of significant evolution of our teaching practices and support
our courses. for those teaching, to make those transitions. Alongside
this professional development we will continuously improve
Those courses that aim to build the Tasmanian workforce
our teaching quality, informed by peers and sector best
should be known for the distinctive content that addresses
practices. We will increase the distinctiveness of our
Tasmania's needs. Some of those courses may have quite
courses by teaching outside the classroom, in the field, in
modest numbers of students because the size of the
workplaces and in the community. Team-based teaching and
professions they serve in Tasmania is small. It should be our
problem-centred learning will be integral to our curriculum,
objective to also take advantage of their small size to create
and innovative uses of technology will offer much richer
unique experiences and strong cohorts. With our larger
learning experiences.
courses we still want to create a sense of belonging with a
cohort committed to a better future for Tasmania and the The progression of Artificial Intelligence (AI) will have
world to characterise their experience. significant implications for how we teach and what students
need from universities. We embrace the possibilities of AI
Courses that aim to attract students to Tasmania or to
to enrich our learning offerings in many ways and the need
our online courses should have an offering so distinctive
to ensure our students are skilled in how to use AI ethically
that students couldn't do it elsewhere. The basis of that
and effectively. Equally, we will stay focused on the fact
distinctiveness is usually going to be a combination of
that a university education is learning in a community of
making great use of our place, as well as drawing on the
students, through relationships with those who teach, and
unique capabilities and creative practices of our people and
often in place. There is transformative power in the unique
their respective areas of world-leading research, or where we
relationships created between students and their teachers.
have unique or innovative professional offerings that have
So too for the interactions between students from all walks
arisen from being very close partners with government,
of life, which creates new and often lasting relationships
industry, or community.
and enriched understandings of the world.
Courses where we aim to serve a national market, such as
we have in Health, whether they are offered in-person as ▶ Goals and accountability: We will use the
we do in New South Wales or online, should be known to Student Experience Survey benchmarks and ensure
provide the best-in-class version of those offerings in content, the experience we provide is at least five percentage
structure and experience. We see this distinctiveness in our points above the national average and improving until
national offerings coming from a commitment to provide those results are 90% or greater. We will target student
innovative solutions for partners with which we have built employment rates and starting salaries to be above
deep relationships. the national average, which will see us contribute
to Tasmania narrowing the income gap to the rest
Across all courses whatever their purpose and whether
delivered in-person or online we see a focus on relationships of the nation.
24 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Field
trip
Cascade
Female
Factory,
South
Hobart.
Committed to excellence and impact through programmatic research
Programmatic and partnered research funding is what While programmatic research needs to be a clear focus, we
we will focus on. We have learnt that to achieve the sort will continue to pursue and support creative, discovery and
of impact to which we aspire, the most effective strategy is curiosity driven research as an integral part of our dual role.
to focus on multi-year, large scale, well structured - often While some of that work might explore territory beyond our
interdisciplinary - work that is done in partnership with areas of strategic or programmatic focus, we know it will
beneficiaries including industry, community or government. thrive best when it is part of a healthy research ecosystem
It is this sort of programmatic focus that has been the basis of that spans discovery to impact because when that is the case,
the significant increase we have achieved in research funding, excellent discovery and impact focused work is an 'and' not
particularly from research impact-geared funding schemes. an 'or'. In the era we are entering, we need to be especially
Importantly, this approach leads us to access sources of alert to these false dichotomies if we are to succeed in
funding outside the narrow pool of increasingly competitive our mission.
ARC funding, which is also unlikely to grow substantially.
Whatever research and research training we do, excellence
We will still pursue ARC and discovery research funding needs to characterise it all - it is not possible to have impact
schemes and the recognition of excellence that comes in the absence of excellence. We choose to set our standards
with them, including contributing to the global store of high because that is the nature of our University. We know
knowledge, which we know will have an impact now and that excellence from our researchers, including Higher
into the future. Nevertheless, those broader pools of impact- Degree by Research (HDR) students, is needed if we are to
geared research funding schemes are growing because of the deliver discoveries and solutions that meet our expectations
massive investments needed to transition to a net zero and for making a difference. We are also aware that in the highly
sustainable economy, adapt to climate change, and meet the competitive world of research funding, it will be critical not
Government's objective to reverse some of the downsides of just to secure funding but doing so on terms that enables the
globalisation by increasing Australia's manufacturing. full cost of our research to be funded. We see impact-geared
research funding schemes as a key pathway to providing
An important form of programmatic partnered research
a sound financial base to sustain our research excellence
is commercialisation. Commercialisation is a vital way
and impact.
universities have impact because it involves transforming
the new knowledge we create into highly valued solutions ▶ Goals and accountability: As articulated in our
in the form of products and services to problems that need
Academic Capability Framework, we will use our
solving. We need to build on our commercialisation successes
new standards and measures of research quality,
through UTAS InVent, our internal commercialisation
performance and impact to ensure research excellence
platform, which helps support programmatic commercial
is being pursued and achieved. We will measure our
efforts and access to long-term funding partners.
progress on the input side against the goal of 90%
The creation of the sort of start-ups that come from university of our funding coming from three-year or greater
research is vital for Tasmania. They will provide the basis for programmatic research and 80% of our publications
renewing the State's economy in the face of the competitive being in Tier 1 journals or books. We will maintain a
pressures of global competition, which are especially felt in
rolling average of 10 invention disclosures a year. We
regional locations like Tasmania. They provide the greatest
will measure our progress on outcomes against our
source of new high-quality jobs and they attract private
goals for the five major transitions Tasmania needs
sector investment, which Tasmania needs. Innovative new
to make.
enterprises help to lift productivity of the whole economy,
which is one of those transitions we have made a priority.
There being no other university on the island, we have a
particular obligation to ensure we play our role to see a
healthy stream of new start-ups created in and, importantly,
staying in Tasmania.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 25
Field
camp,
Antarctic
Peninsula
(Picture:
Mike
Bentley).
Ambitious about equity with excellence
We are committed to a pathways program, which delivers they are 'stackable' and there is full mutual recognition of
equity and supports excellence, that is part of one these sorts of offerings with TAFE.
integrated Tasmanian education system. Tasmania's future
A successful pathways program will see us have a much
requires significantly higher levels of tertiary participation
more diverse student population. For them to succeed
and completion to meet the Accord's objectives, which will
and thrive in first year courses and beyond, we will need
be critical to meeting our goals for a more equitable Tasmania
to systematically eliminate the barriers to their success.
with higher productivity levels, improved incomes, and
The starting point for that effort is to design all our units
better health.
so they are accessible to everyone irrespective of the range
Given the number of adults for whom the education system of people's physical abilities or their neurodiversity - an
hasn't prepared them for higher education, we will need a approach could be universal design for learning. Our plan for
substantial pathways program, so they have the capability inclusion will start by ensuring all our units are built around
needed to enter and succeed at university level. In a managed universal design for learning to support everyone's success
system where the number of students we should expect from in the 'classroom' and targeting needs-based funding to
other parts of Australia will be modest, the students coming address the barriers to students starting and staying in
through our pathways program will be very important to learning. We are committed to continuing to work to
maintaining the critical mass of students we need to support develop ever more effective and evidence-based solutions
the breadth of our offerings. to eliminate barriers to student success.
The objective of our pathways program will be to enable
▶ Goals and accountability: The Accord provides us
students to reach a level appropriate for their entry into first
with very clear goals. We need to work with TasTAFE
year university. Clear entry standards and a strong pathways
to see 80% of the working age population having a
program will enable us to raise the average standard in first
post-school qualification by 2050 and, as part of that,
year classes so we can increase the success rate of students
bachelor level attainment rates rise from 37% today to
and reinforce our commitment to excellence.
55% by 2050. To be on track to meet that goal by 2030
The program itself will need to create seamless pathways we should see at least 700 more Tasmanians coming
with TAFE and school programs, to avoid duplication and to the University each year.
competition, so we can create one Tasmanian education
system built around making it as easy as possible for students Central to realising that objective and the equity goals
to navigate through it. Part of the program will need to of the Accord is to ensure that Tasmanian students
include significant work in partnership across the education from low SES backgrounds or with disabilities are
system and broader community to engage students with the represented in all parts of the University in the same
idea of education and to close basic literacy and numeracy proportion as they exist in the population and that the
gaps so they can engage with formal education. number of regional students studying in Burnie and
Launceston is growing.
Complementing our pathways work we need to deliver
micro-credentials and short courses to meet the particular But that will not be enough - they also need to succeed
skills needs of industry and community. These courses will so we need to see completion rates rise from 58% today
be ever more important as the knowledge and skill intensity to above 80% while maintaining our quality standards.
of jobs continues to grow. For some, these opportunities will
That is a goal that we will need to meet much sooner
be an important stepping stone to larger involvement with
than 2050. By 2030 we anticipate completion rates will
higher or vocational education. Therefore, we need to ensure
need to be 70%.
26 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Pharmacy
students,
Cradle
Coast
campus,
Burnie.
Regionally networked 'with' and 'in' the community
The Accord objective of 80% of people needing tertiary Often a student's strongest sense of identity and positive
education means it needs to be ubiquitous in our society, just experience of the University is with the academic unit in
as schooling is, only unlike schools, people will need access which they study or the college or residence in which they
to tertiary education throughout their lives, not just at the live. Rather than seek to create some single 'university'
beginning. That has significant implications for universities. experience we should seek to strengthen that local
In the era now long gone in Australia where only a small experience of it.
percentage of the population attended them, universities
We need to remember that in making these moves we are in
could be 'a place apart' from the community.
many ways connecting with the foundation of universities not
We know now that access requires them to be part of denying them. The roots of the idea of universities in places
communities. Universities need to be places 'with' and 'in', not like Bologna, Paris, Oxford and St. Andrews are of universities
'apart' from community. That means we need our campuses that are distributed through their towns and where a
and access to our courses and our researchers to be present student's primary identification is with their academic
in the communities we serve, and to ensure that where we unit rather than the central administrative entity which is
have a physical presence we are responding to and engaging the university. The difference today is that we are making
with the nature and needs of the community. This is why universities present in the community for everyone, not just to
all levels of government and the University have invested in be homes for a few.
renewing and relocating our campuses in Launceston and
To be present in and with the community means we need
Burnie. We have come to know that even these campuses
to approach the island as a whole. We also need to connect
need to be part of a wider network of physical presences
Tasmania with the work we do in Sydney and other places on
through study hubs in towns and suburbs more distant from
the mainland. We seek to do that by operating our campuses
our main campuses. Our presence is necessarily becoming
as a 'network' rather than pursuing a 'hub and spoke' model.
ever more distributed.
Through operating as a network, we aim to distribute our
Even our main traditional campuses have become more university capabilities across the island and to provide homes
distributed over the last 20 years as they have taken on a for research and teaching in those locations that best suit
quality of being 'with' and 'in' community rather than apart that work.
from it. As we have discovered the importance of workplace
Our whole of Tasmania commitment means we aim to
learning for building the high skill levels we require today,
make available across all our Tasmanian locations the
and the power of proximity for research, facilities have been
educational opportunities that will enable people to live
moved closer to our partners. We have seen that with health
the lives of their choice. We aim to provide that through
and medicine, marine and Antarctic studies, music and
equivalent educational opportunities. We recognise that the
the creative arts, especially in the south of Tasmania. In the
nature of those opportunities will at times vary to reflect the
north and north-west, we have created new campuses that
very different contexts of our regions from the size of their
consciously invite the community 'in' to our spaces.
populations to the nature of their workforce needs.
That trend towards greater need for proximity will only
Working 'with' the community on the transitions Tasmania
accelerate further, as partnerships with community, industry
needs to make by 2050 means we recognise the State's
and government will be ever more important to us in
future hinges very significantly on the depth and breadth
delivering our mission.
of leadership at all levels in our community and its culture
The world of online education has accelerated the emergence and capabilities. We embrace the opportunity to work to
of a highly distributed University presence. Now for so support communities to develop the leadership, culture,
many people who don't come to campus, they access and and capabilities they need. To do that work means we need
experience the University in their home through our online to think well beyond the traditional categories of courses
campus. We need to recognise that even today the majority and research. We need to explore what more innovative
of students experience the University in their home rather approaches to community and leadership development
than solely on a physical campus. could look like at local and statewide scales.
The reality of what is required today of higher education, Integral to making those transitions are deep partnerships
let alone where we will need to be by 2050, means that the with government, industry and community to pursue long-
debate about a single campus vs a distributed university term goals. The well-structured and resourced partnerships
really belongs to the past. We have created distributed the University has with the State Government and industry in
campuses and a national and international online the areas agriculture, fisheries, and the marine environment
presence but never made a strategic choice to operate have been very successful. They are models of what working
a distributed university. together can look like and we aspire to strengthen and
broaden those sorts of relationships.
Our strategy will be to operate as a distributed university
precisely so we can enhance the student experience. Not
▶ Goals and accountability: In relation to campuses
doing so risks diminishing it because if we focus on 'the true'
our goals are to ensure our students report a positive
university experience only being present at one or two sites,
experience of each of our campuses that is well above
then many students spread across our network and online
the national average of the national campus experience
will miss out. That means strengthening every student's
survey and that we see year-on-year increases in the
experience of belonging and being part of a cohort, creating
number of community members visiting and utilising
opportunities for them to engage in the broader intellectual
and cultural life of the University wherever they are located, our campus spaces.
and making sure wherever students are, at whatever stage
In relation to working with the community we aim to
they are in their life course, they can access places where they
increase the percentage of our research funding that
can study outside of class, meet other students, and access
is managed through long-term partnerships
staff and services.
with government.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 27
Collectively stewarding our staff experience and University economics
The structure of higher education and its funding have In a managed growth system where there is an agreed level
put constant pressure on staff experience. The full cost of of student load for a set number of years, it is possible to plan
teaching and research has not been funded, which has both the economics of the University and the workload of
put universities under constant pressure to grow revenue staff, so they are more sustainable. To start with, individual
and find efficiencies. That funding pressure has been even academic units of the University don't need revenue targets
greater in universities like ours which are average in scale because student load will be a matter of institutional
but have broad missions to provide the wide range of negotiation with the funding body, which will set overall
courses our communities need, in multiple places, to a student load levels. Of course, it matters greatly that we
diverse cohort of students while maintaining world leading create a compelling student experience, produce successful
research capabilities. graduates, and that our courses are attractive because if
we don't meet our agreed load targets then funding will
Universities in regional settings like ours have sought to
decline. The best way to ensure that goal is met is to focus
manage that challenge by focusing on students and staff and
unambiguously on the quality of our teaching and learning.
minimising their investment in systems and infrastructure.
Over time, that only adds to the financial pressures While it is a managed system it is still one designed for
universities face and diminishes staff and student experience. 'growth' - it is just that growth will be planned rather than
the result of simple competitive market forces. We will need
In an era of tailwinds, universities have been able to reduce
to be very thoughtful to ensure our courses and offerings are
some of this funding gap through the constant growth in
designed to attract and retain those new students entering
domestic, and particularly international student numbers.
the world of tertiary education if we are to fulfill our mission.
The move to capped domestic and international student
numbers means even this solution is no longer available. Currently our university economics can be very complex
because of the mismatches between what we get funded
However, the transition to a managed system does provide
for and the actual cost of teaching students plus the fact
us with the opportunity to move to a model of shared
that research currently gets heavily cross subsidised from
responsibility for our economics and our staff experience,
teaching. With a more planned system and funding better
which should enable us to improve both. Economics and staff
aligned to the cost of what we do, it will be possible to
experience are integrally linked and find their expression in
move towards a simpler formula that ultimately underpins
questions of workload and wellbeing.
economic and workload sustainability.
28 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
STEM
workshop,
Philip
Smith
Centre,
Hobart.
The simpler 'right-size' formula has four elements to it. The third is we need to continue to increase the sources of
income we receive from commercialisation and philanthropy.
The first part is to ensure that we achieve a sustainable
Over the long run these sources of income make a very
balance between the number of units and the times we
valuable contribution to the University's ability to pursue the
offer them, the size of our classes, and the number of our
agendas it determines are important. In a highly managed
staff. Integral to finding that balance is that we need to
system, that brings freedom that can be very important to
have sufficient students in each unit to cover the cost of
ensuring excellence and our ability to chart the course we
the teaching and the service contribution people make as
think is important in a world of many pressures.
an integral part of their role, and to make a proportionate
contribution to all the University costs. That proportionate The fourth is that we need to manage the previous elements
contribution includes those costs associated with attracting of the formula to generate the amount we need each year
and supporting those students, attracting and supporting to invest in our long-term IT systems, research equipment,
staff and their development, maintaining our infrastructure facilities, laboratories and infrastructure plans so that they
from buildings and libraries to laboratories, meeting our enable us to deliver on our strategies and achieve our mission.
many regulatory and legislative obligations, and engaging We calculate that to be about $60-80m a year.
with the community.
This simpler model will help collective understanding,
If we get those ratios right, then staff have the foundation ownership, and mutual accountability for us together
for reasonable workloads and the ability to offer high quality to achieve a financially sustainable University with the
student engagement, and the University has sufficient foundation for reasonable workloads, recognising there
income to be sustainable. However, if we have too many units are other things we will need to do as well to simplify the
or classes that are too large relative to our staff numbers, University to improve the experience of staff and students.
workloads become unreasonable and time for student
Our strategy will be to work together to create and run this
engagement is strained. Similarly, if there are too few
'right size model' as the basis for managing the University.
students in a unit it will need to be cross subsidised by other
units which will then need to have a much higher ratio of
▶ Goals and accountability: To put this model in
students to staff or staff to units than is ideal.
place, our goals are first, that each academic unit
What is important is that appropriately empowered academic achieves a ratio of staff to units and students per unit
units can control the key elements of this formula and that delivers a sustainable work-load and economics.
respond to their particular evolving circumstances through Second, our portfolio of research projects and programs
the way they design their courses and allocate staff to teach are at least 80% funded across the whole University.
them. While it will take some time to unwind the approach
Third, Divisions and Academic Unit leadership deliver
we currently have and there will be complexities created by
the services required, the whole of university support,
the gradual implementation of new student funding models,
and invest $60-80m in capital each year, with the
our objective is to move towards this simpler, adaptive
income generated by the sustainable economics of
and more devolved participative model for managing our
academic units and the other income the University
economics and workloads.
generates from its investments, philanthropy,
There will at times be pressure to offer courses or units and commercialisation.
that are important to Tasmania but which we can't deliver
economically. Our first response needs to be to seek to find
a way to offer what is needed whether through a different
type of offering, additional state level funding, or through
partnership with a university off the island. Where no such
solution can be found we need to make a very careful
decision about the merits of cross-subsidising such an
offering and to recognise that our capacity to provide such
cross-subsidies is very limited.
The second is that on the research side, we need to minimise
any cross subsidises of research from teaching, because
cross subsidisation creates pressure to have large classes
or to increase the number of units people teach. We need
to ensure the costs of research projects are as close to fully
funded as possible so that we can sustain our research
excellence and impact. Fully funded means that any costs
of research, including the percentage of staff time paid for as
part of their role, is covered by grants, partnership ventures
and/or other forms of external funding from the beneficiaries
we serve. Already in some parts of the University, including in
some of the areas of high-cost science research, we are close
to achieving that objective, so it can be done. What makes
this direction plausible as well is that the Accord encourages
government funding schemes to pay the full cost of research.
There will, of course, be some types of public interest and
discovery research where it will not to be possible for it to fully
funded. What is important is that we are transparent about
what that work is and that the investments we make in it are
aligned to our strategic priorities.
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 29
How do we organise ourselves to pursue our strategy?
We need to adapt the way we organise ourselves if the strategy is to be successful and the
engagement and wellbeing of people is going to increase in ways that reflect our objective
to be people centred. As we embark on this, four ideas are going to be important: devolved
decision making, purpose, transitions, and regions.
We know well that the previous era of higher education Transitions
reform created what are by global standards very large
The strength of subsidiarity is that it will bring much more
universities and that they have become bureaucratic and
of the decision making that directly affects people close to
hierarchical with all too often competitive silos. We are no
them. In the process it will effectively increase the autonomy
exception. That needs to change. The right size approach to
of academic units but this approach needs every staff
economics and workload is a start.
member to be able to articulate how they connect with
the University's mission and how it impacts their day to day
Devolved decision making
practice. The challenge is to make sure we can coordinate
To reduce hierarchy and bureaucracy we need to organise across these units successfully to pursue those five whole-of-
around the idea of subsidiarity, which is that decisions are University transitions and others we choose.
taken at the level closest to those implementing the decision.
Again, there is no one size fits all model here. Today the
In practice that means trusting people more and devolving Tasmanian Policy Exchange, the Antarctic and Southern
much greater responsibility to academic units from the Ocean Mission Integrator (ASOMI), and the Tasmanian
college and divisional level to make good decisions at the Behavioural Lab are all very different examples of successful
local level that also consider the whole. In practice that ways of organising across the University. We need to
means increased authority and the minimisation of approvals strengthen and continue to adapt these models but also
required above academic unit level and generally minimising find new ones including for more temporary or exploratory
the total number of approvals. With that responsibility comes collaborations.
accountability to deliver distinctive student experiences,
success rates, and research outcomes. The strongest form Regions
that accountability will take is that in a managed system, an
If we are to achieve our goal of increasing education
academic unit's long-term funding under the Accord reforms
participation and success in Tasmania then we need to
will be dependent on their delivery of those outcomes.
organise around our Tasmanian regions and our Sydney
presence. We need to ensure that organisationally we are
Purpose
solving for how we deliver our offerings statewide and in
For subsidiarity to be effective in delivering our mission, Sydney in response to the varying needs of each place and
academic unit structures need to be organised around for how we make sure our student and staff experience in
purpose. The way we organise needs to adapt to fit our each of these places is distinctive and strong. That means we
strategic purpose rather than follow a standardised model. are not looking for one size fits all solutions but to make sure
That can lead us to be configured in very different ways and we are creating equivalent opportunities and impact in each
at very different scales. region. The voice of regions needs to be far stronger in our
planning than it has been in the past. Thinking of ourselves
At one end, if we are going to play a critical role in
more as higher education system rather than a single large
transforming the Tasmanian health care system, and indeed
organisation will help us reimagine our approach to regions.
make a major contribution to improving the national health
care system, where all professions need to evolve together
to create that system and its practice needs to be built on a
strong research evidence base, then the academic units in
health and medicine both in Tasmania and in Rozelle need to
be well integrated around a common agenda. Where that is
the shared purpose, subsidiarity will require the responsibility
for those integrating decisions to be held at what today we
would call a 'College level', although other decisions could be
more local.
On the other hand, the professional education of lawyers,
teachers and musicians has very little in common so the
principle of subsidiarity would give these academic units
a high level of autonomy to pursue their very different
professional agendas.
What matters when it comes to purpose is not just what
occurs at an academic unit level but what occurs at an
individual level. We need to ensure that every staff member's
work connects to the mission of the University as expressed in
the purpose of their academic unit or division.
30 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 31
Communal
spaces
The
Shed,
Inveresk
campus,
Launceston.
What needs to underpin all we do
If we are to be true to our identity and successfully deliver our strategy there are three priorities
that need to underpin all we do: safety and wellbeing, diversity, and building the culture we want.
Safety and Well-Being Building the culture we want
The foundation of everything we do needs to be safety. No We recognise that there are different models of how
one should be injured physically or psychologically at work organisations work. We need to deliberately choose what sort
and no one should ever experience gender-based violence, of culture we want. Over the last 12 months we have tested
sexual or any other form of discrimination. It is everyone's two models and from this have identified the mindsets, beliefs
collective responsibly to ensure we have a safe workplace and and values that we want to see in all we do at the University.
have in place safe systems of work for all we do. As part of the
Our approach should start with an experiential understanding
process of ensuring safety and well-being at the University
of the realities with which students and staff need to work,
we will continue to develop, implement, monitor and publicly
taking sustainability as a given, and holding global leadership
report on specific plans to address identified issues by our
as the standard we aspire to. When we respond to challenges,
Gender-Based Violence Action Plan. Ensuring safety is an
we will seek to involve, collaborate and empower whenever
active project to ensure we are a workplace where wellbeing
possible, owning the whole problem, working the whole
and inclusion are valued and promoted.
problem and being joined up as a team.
Equity in all our practices Our solutions will assume goodwill, competence, and
If we are to be a university that creates access and equity for accountability. We will standardise where effective, take
our students and addresses a range of inequalities in our a proportionate approach to risk and monitor process
Tasmanian community, we need to be inclusive and diverse outcomes rather than controlling process inputs. Where we
in all ways, so our values are shared and consistent. We also face a tricky issue, we will think relationship first and interact
recognise that it will be hard to be an inclusive place for in person rather than via email.
students if their diversity is not mirrored in the diversity of
We will think of our third parties as partners rather than
our staff.
contractors, and if a service directly affects students and staff,
With that diversity comes the requirement to ensure we prefer to do it ourselves.
equity in all our practices across our teaching, research,
This collection of mindsets and assumptions is aimed at
partnerships and operations. We will continue to evolve our
building trust within the organisation, and indeed requires
practices, policies, training and support to provide equitable
it. It does mean that a breach of trust is not just 'breaking a
experiences and outcomes for students and staff across the
rule' but brings into question the extent to which someone
University. This includes considering how we can provide
belongs within the organisation.
an inclusive and supportive experience for neurodivergent
students and staff. This set of mindsets and beliefs is not intended to be
definitive or even particularly fixed but rather to give a sense
While we have made progress in some areas of equity in the
of the direction we want to head in as we build a culture that
workplace, such as now having the second lowest gender
will enable our mission, values, and strategy implementation
pay gap in the sector, so long as there is still a gap, we have to
if we are to be successful. We will use our annual Employee
relentlessly focus on closing it.
Engagement Survey to measure the evolution of the
culture that we want, with the aim of continually improving
employee engagement.
32 UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA
Greenhill
Observatory,
Bisdee
Tier,
Tasmania.
Strategic Plan - Outlook to 2050
Strategic theme KPI Target
Professional courses rated against an Rated to 'meet needs'
ATEC* agreed scorecard to deliver the
workforce Tasmania needs
Percentage of international students 20% of our cohort are international students
Percentage of total international students Up to 33%
from a single country
Education: educational attainment 90% of Tasmanian students prepared for
tertiary education by 2050
80% of working age population having a
Mission Focused post-school qualification by 2050
Health: Life expectancy Meets or exceeds national average by 2050
Burden of chronic disease - Reduced to below the national average by 2050
disability-adjusted life years lost
Productivity: state productivity rate Exceed the national average by 2050
Climate: gross emissions Tasmania is a world leader towards a
zero-emission economy by 2040
Tasmanian Stories Increase in the publication and performance
of Tasmanian Stories in all their forms.
Comparative success rate of Indigenous Equal or better
Grounded in and non-Indigenous students
Indigenous excellence
and knowledge Percentage of Indigenous students and Equal or better
staff vs general population
Deliver on agreed measurable Achieve and sustain Platinum Status in STARS
Organised around sustainability objectives Maintain high rankings in the
sustainability Times Higher Education Impact Rankings
(Climate Impact and overall ranking)
Student Experience Survey At least 5pp above national average or
Characterised by a improving until greater than 90%
distinctive student
experience and high-quality Student Employment Rate Above the national average
teaching in all we do and Starting Salaries
Percentage of funding coming from 3 year Greater than 90%
or greater programmatic research
Committed to research
excellence and impact Publications in Tier 1 Journals or Books 80% or greater
Rolling average of invention disclosures a year. Greater than 10
Completion rates 70% by 2030
Ambitious about equity
Percentage of Tasmania students from Equal or higher
with excellence
equity cohorts compared to the proportion
in the population.
National campus experience survey Experience at each campus is above
Regionally networked national average
'with' and 'in' the
Number of community members visiting Year-on-Year increases
community
and utilising our campuses
Ratio of staff to units and students per unit Each academic unit achieves a ratio that delivers
a sustainable workload and economics
Collectively stewarding our
university staff experience
Portfolio of research projects and programs At least 80% funded across the whole university
and economics
EBITDA $60-80m
Lost Time Injuries Zero
Our way of working Gender pay gap Zero
Employee engagement survey results Results measurably improving
*Australian Tertiary Education Commission (ATEC)
STRATEGIC PLAN: 2025 REFRESH 33
▶ Students conducting biological surveys on Maria Island.
utas.edu.au
While the information published in this document was accurate at the time of publication,
the University of Tasmania reserves the right to alter, amend or delete information published here.
Published March 2025
For the most up-to-date information please visit utas.edu.au | CRICOS 00586B