In 2021, Universiti Malaya (UM) celebrated the 116th year of its founding anniversary. Since then, UM has been on a journey which has seen it established itself as the premier university in Malaysia committed to providing high quality education and enriching society. UM has contributed significantly to Nation building, cultivating pioneers in various academic fields and leading Malaysia in key scientific research, with its alumni playing pivotal roles throughout Malaysia’s history. UM is not, however, content to rest on its laurels. In the last decade, with the implementation of carefully designed strategic initiatives, UM has successfully positioned itself among the top 100 universities in the world, Asia’s best top 10 (2020 QS-Asia University Rankings) and the top 3 in Southeast Asia. Universiti Malaya (UM) is embarking on a transformation journey to elevate the University to academic and intellectual excellence. Being part of the global knowledge network, UM strives to make significant contributions that impact our society, country and the world. A Joint Steering Committee: UM Transformation, comprising the Board of Directors (BoD) and the Top Management of the University, has been established to oversee the University’s transformation process. Our vision has grown with us, and we now aim to be a global university impacting not just the nation, but also the world. Moving forward to achieve this vision, we must continue to grow and evolve, spreading the wings of our knowledge. Our roles must go far beyond academia. We must aim to be the engine that drives the nation forward in achieving its aspirations, with our academics and researchers making contributions that impact not just Malaysia, but the world. As a nation, Malaysia has several strategic initiatives in place to move it forward; • The Shared Prosperity Vision 2030 (SPV2030) aims to see Malaysia achieve sustainable growth with fair and equitable distribution across all levels of the community. This is in sync with the 17 Social Development Goals of the United Nations. The Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MOSTI) has also put in place the National Policy on Science, Technology and Innovation (DSTIN) 2021-2030 and the 10-10 Framework of Science, Technology, Innovation and Economy (MySTIE). Together, these two initiatives will elevate the role of science, technology and innovation as key driving forces for Malaysia’s economic growth, towards achieving Malaysia’s aim of becoming a technologically advanced nation. The 12th Malaysia plan with the tagline ‘A prosperous, inclusive, sustainable Malaysia’. It focuses on three key themes - resetting the economy; strengthening security, wellbeing and inclusivity; and advancing sustainability. The key to achieving these are the following policy enablers – developing future talent, accelerating technology adoption and innovation, enhancing connectivity and transport infrastructure, and strengthening the public service. UM aims to lead in research, development, policy making, talent development and other areas which will help achieve these goals. We understand the challenges before us, and as a premier university UM must take the lead in navigating and overcoming these challenges. We have therefore strategise to bring about transformation by: Championing a new governance and business model; Reimagining education in UM; Excelling in research; Adopting process and digital enabled transformation; Transforming culture, embracing change, and nurturing talent; and Enhancing the learning and work environment; at the same time, we are focused on having a real social impact. All these elements of the plan give us the acronym CREATEs, which also reflects our drive to enact concrete plans for transformation. We hope that our commitment, shown through UM’s transformation plan and the implementation and realisation of CREATEs, will see us leading the nation towards these goals.
In 2021, Universiti Malaya (UM) celebrated the 116th year of its founding anniversary. Since then, UM has been on a journey which has seen it established itself as the premier university in Malaysia committed to providing high quality education and enriching society. UM has contributed significantly to Nation building, cultivating pioneers in various academic fields and leading Malaysia in key scientific research, with its alumni playing pivotal roles throughout Malaysia’s history. UM is not, however, content to rest on its laurels. In the last decade, with the implementation of carefully designed strategic initiatives, UM has successfully positioned itself among the top 100 universities in the world, Asia’s best top 10 (2020 QS-Asia University Rankings) and the top 3 in Southeast Asia.
Universiti Malaya (UM) is embarking on a transformation journey to elevate the University to academic and intellectual excellence. Being part of the global knowledge network, UM strives to make significant contributions that impact our society, country and the world. A Joint Steering Committee: UM Transformation, comprising the Board of Directors (BoD) and the Top Management of the University, has been established to oversee the University’s transformation process.
Our vision has grown with us, and we now aim to be a global university impacting not just the nation, but also the world. Moving forward to achieve this vision, we must continue to grow and evolve, spreading the wings of our knowledge. Our roles must go far beyond academia. We must aim to be the engine that drives the nation forward in achieving its aspirations, with our academics and researchers making contributions that impact not just Malaysia, but the world.
As a nation, Malaysia has several strategic initiatives in place to move it forward; • The Shared Prosperity Vision 2030 (SPV2030) aims to see Malaysia achieve sustainable growth with fair and equitable distribution across all levels of the community. This is in sync with the 17 Social Development Goals of the United Nations.
The Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MOSTI) has also put in place the National Policy on Science, Technology and Innovation (DSTIN) 2021-2030 and the 10-10 Framework of Science, Technology, Innovation and Economy (MySTIE). Together, these two initiatives will elevate the role of science, technology and innovation as key driving forces for Malaysia’s economic growth, towards achieving Malaysia’s aim of becoming a technologically advanced nation.
The 12th Malaysia plan with the tagline ‘A prosperous, inclusive, sustainable Malaysia’. It focuses on three key themes - resetting the economy; strengthening security, wellbeing and inclusivity; and advancing sustainability. The key to achieving these are the following policy enablers – developing future talent, accelerating technology adoption and innovation, enhancing connectivity and transport infrastructure, and strengthening the public service.
UM aims to lead in research, development, policy making, talent development and other areas which will help achieve these goals. We understand the challenges before us, and as a premier university UM must take the lead in navigating and overcoming these challenges. We have therefore strategise to bring about transformation by: Championing a new governance and business model; Reimagining education in UM; Excelling in research; Adopting process and digital enabled transformation; Transforming culture, embracing change, and nurturing talent; and Enhancing the learning and work environment; at the same time, we are focused on having a real social impact. All these elements of the plan give us the acronym CREATEs, which also reflects our drive to enact concrete plans for transformation. We hope that our commitment, shown through UM’s transformation plan and the implementation and realisation of CREATEs, will see us leading the nation towards these goals.
What are the 6 themes about? Open image in new tab for clearer viewing
What are the 6 themes about?
[ CLICK HERE] UM TRANSFORMATION PLAN 2021-2030 BOOKLET
UM Priority Strategic Initiatives
1. YM Tengku Datuk Dr. Mohd Azzman Shariffadeen Tengku Ibrahim 8. Datuk Associate Professor Dr. Rozaidah Talib (Chairman, Board of Directors) (Member, Board of Directors) 2. Dato’ Prof. Ir. Dr. Mohd Hamdi Abd Shukor 9. Datuk Rosnah Hj. Abd Rashid Shirlin (Vice-Chancellor, UM) (Member, Board of Directors) 3. Datuk Seri Dr. Mazlan Yusoff 10. Tan Sri Dato' Dr. R. Palan (Member, Board of Directors) (Member, Board of Directors) 4. Dr. Sivabalasingam a/l Veerasingam 11. Tan Sri Abdul Rahim Mohamad (Member, Board of Directors) . (Member, Board of Directors) 5. Ar. Saifuddin Ahmad 12. Profesor Dr. Kamila Ghazali (Member, Board of Directors) (Deputy Vice-Chancellor's Office (Academic & International)) 6. Professor Dr. Rofina Yasmin Othman 13. Profesor Dr. Ir. Dr. Abdul Aziz Abdul Raman (Member, Board of Directors) (Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Development)/Acting Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Student Affairs)) 7. Tan Sri Zarinah Anwar 14. Profesor Dr. Noorsaadah Abd Rahman (Member, Board of Directors) (Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation))
YM Tengku Datuk Dr. Mohd Azzman Shariffadeen Tengku Ibrahim
Datuk Associate Professor Dr. Rozaidah Talib
(Chairman, Board of Directors)
(Member, Board of Directors)
Dato’ Prof. Ir. Dr. Mohd Hamdi Abd Shukor
Datuk Rosnah Hj. Abd Rashid Shirlin
(Member, Board of Directors)
Datuk Seri Dr. Mazlan Yusoff
Tan Sri Dato' Dr. R. Palan
(Member, Board of Directors)
(Member, Board of Directors)
Dr. Sivabalasingam a/l Veerasingam
Tan Sri Abdul Rahim Mohamad
(Member, Board of Directors)
(Member, Board of Directors)
Profesor Dr. Kamila Ghazali
(Member, Board of Directors)
(Deputy Vice-Chancellor's Office (Academic & International))
Professor Dr. Rofina Yasmin Othman
Profesor Dr. Ir. Dr. Abdul Aziz Abdul Raman
(Member, Board of Directors)
(Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Development)/Acting Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Student Affairs))
Tan Sri Zarinah Anwar
Profesor Dr. Noorsaadah Abd Rahman
(Member, Board of Directors)
(Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Innovation))
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Sulaiman Mahbob
Chairman, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Telekom Malaysia Berhad
Datuk Dr. Hamzah Kassim
Chief Executive Officer, The iA Group
Mr. Hoe Kah Soon
Board of Ireka Corporation Berhad, & Former UM BoD
Head of Business Development for Asia of BubbleDeck International, Denmark
Professor Ir. Dr. Abdul Aziz Abdul Raman (Development Office)
Professor Dr. Shaliza Ibrahim (Research & Innovation Office)
Professor Dr. Yvonne Lim Ai Lian (International Relations Office)
Profesor Dr. Yatimah binti Alias (Academic Strategic Planning Centre)
Professor Dr. Abrizah Binti Abdullah (Science Computer & Information Technology)
Professor Dr. Yahaya Bin Ahmad (Built Environment)
Professor Dr. Stefanie Shamila Pillai (Languages & Linguistics)
Datin Associate Professor Dr. Izlin Binti Ismail (Business & Accountancy)
Associate Professor Dr. Jatswan Singh A/L Harnam Singh (AEI)
Associate Professor Dr. Firdaus Hariri (Dentistry)
Associate Professor Dr. Surinderpal Kaur A/P Chanan Singh (Languages & Linguistics)
Professor Dr. Saiful Anuar Bin Karsani (Science)
Associate Professor Dr. Yusniza Binti Kamarulzaman (Business and Accountancy)
Associate Professor Dr. Adelina Binti Asmawi (Education)
Dr. Yusrizam Bin Sharifuddin (Science)
Dr. Tan Ta Sheng (Science)
Dr. Donnie Adams a/l Paramasivam (Education)
Dr. Jillian Ooi Lean Sim (Arts and Social Sciences)
Dr. Sheena Kaur A/P Jaswant Singh (Languages & Linguistics)
Dr. Ng Boon Kwee (Science)
Dr. Nasrul Anuar Bin Abd Razak (Engineering)
Dr. Azmawaty Binti Mohamad Nor (Education)
Dr. Mohammad Firdaus Bin Abdul Aziz (Law)
SECRETARIAT (CORPORATE STRATEGY CENTRE)
Prof. Dr. Yahaya Ahmad (Director)
Associate Professor Dr. Nazia Abdul Majid (Deputy Director)
Mdm. Leong Huey Yng
Mr. Omar Abdul Rahim
Mr. Abdul Malik Anuar
Mdm. Tan Siu Ching
Mr. Ahmad Danial Kasron
Mr. Mohamad Firdaus Bin Ramli
Mr. Mohd Naufal Omar@Wan
Mdm. Khairul Bariah Mohd Sabri
Mdm. Siti Zawahir Zubir
Ms. Norshila Maulad Mat Nor
As part of the UM Transformation journey, a Gallery Walk is held at the UM Art Gallery (UMAG) to showcase the outputs and outcomes of the transformation activities, with the goal to actively engage the University community in gathering views and feedbacks on: • Proposed new UM’s vision and mission statements • Findings on UM’s performance gaps and high-level solutions via stakeholder engagements However, due to Conditional Movement Control Order (CMCO) currently enforced by the Government, the physical access to Gallery Walk is limited. Therefore, we would like to share the content of the Gallery Walk with you. Feel free to provide your comments and opinions by completing the feedback forms embedded. Your feedbacks really matter to us.
SCENARIO PLANNING (17TH JUNE 2020)
VISIONING WORKSHOP (5TH AUGUST 2020)
UNIVERSITI MALAYA TRANSFORMATION LAB (PHASE 1)(2ND - 4TH SEPTEMBER 2020)
UM STRATEGIC L EADERSHIP TRANSFORMATION CONFERENCE 2022 (17TH - 19TH MAY 2022)