Strategy
2023 - 2027.
Supporting aspiration, creating opportunities, delivering impact
Contents.
Introduction from Vice Chancellor
Professor Anne-Marie Kilday 5
How we developed this strategy 6
Strategy tiers 7
Our mission 8
Our values 9
Our priorities and what they are built on 11
Our purpose: Social impact 20
The foundations of our success 22
Afterword from Chair of the
University of Northampton
Board of Governors, Geoff Donnelly 26
University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 3
Introduction from
Vice Chancellor.
Professor Anne-Marie Kilday
When I arrived at the University of This strategy will be our guide and has been
Northampton in the Summer of 2022, I was developed in close consultation with the people
welcomed into an institution that has been most affected by it - our staff and student
transforming lives for decades. What began community. Their commitment to their University
as Northampton Technical College in 1924 is on each page, and I thank them for their
has evolved into the county's only seat of guidance and counsel.
Higher Education, enriching knowledge
through research and building a better Now it is time for us to rise to their challenge
future for thousands of people in the UK and work together to deliver the University of
and around the world. Northampton they have envisioned. I am looking
forward to every step of that journey and invite
I am incredibly proud to be the Vice Chancellor of you to join us.
the University of Northampton, and the custodian
of its legacy. In uncertain times, our polestar is
the positive impact we can make, and the steps
we must take to achieve our ambitions and Professor Anne-Marie Kilday
enable others to achieve theirs. Vice Chancellor
4 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 5
How we
Strategy tiers
developed
this strategy. OUR Student Learning
Our staff Research
PRIORITIES experience and teaching
This strategy has been developed through a process
of co-creation. Throughout the winter of 2022/23, we OUR
Social impact
PURPOSE
held a range of face-to-face and online events where
staff from across the University came together to
discuss our ambitions, sourced ideas from across our FOUNDATIONS
Our campus, place Finance and
How we work
OF SUCCESS and communities resourcing
staff body through a dedicated survey, and spoke to
students about what is most important to them.
OUR
We also referred to existing data where available and held focused conversations in the
Inclusivity Sustainability Aspiration Trust
University Leadership Team and our Board of Governors. A draft version of the strategy VALUES
(the Green Paper) was circulated for consultation in June 2023 and final revisions have
been made based on feedback received.
6 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 7
Our mission. Our values.
Four core values, developed through conversations
across our community, underpin everything in our
strategy and will guide our decisions.
Supporting
Inclusivity Sustainability
aspiration
The University of Northampton The University aims to become
celebrates and promotes being a net zero carbon this decade.
diverse and inclusive community We will mobilise our University
because diverse characteristics community towards common
bring diversity of thought and objectives and collective action
Creating experiences. This creates a richer to be a sustainable institution,
community where - with respect with positive impacts on our
and fairness - everyone matters environment and on society.
and everyone can excel.
opportunities
CORE
VALUES
Delivering
Aspiration Trust
The motto on the University's Trust is a core principle of
impact
crest is 'Ne Nesciamus' (Let us the way we work together.
not be ignorant). Our strategy We will build relationships
outlines our ambitions for the which foster trust through
future of our University, but respect, reliability, transparency
also will enable us to realise the and a shared mission to support
aspirations of our staff, students aspiration, create opportunities,
and stakeholders for excellence and deliver impact.
in all we do.
8 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 9
Our priorities
and what they
are built on.
Our priorities reflect our mission.
They are rooted in our commitment
to the difference we make. Supporting
aspiration, creating opportunities,
delivering impact.
10 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 11
Priority one:
BY 2027, WE WILL HOW
Our staff.
Support a culture of Develop our People Strategy, outlining
Our staff are our greatest asset. We want colleagues
our plans and ambitions for attracting,
excellence in all our work developing, engaging and retaining our staff.
to be proud to work at the University of Northampton
Improve the staff life cycle from application
and know that the University is proud of them. We
and onboarding, through career
progression.
will showcase excellence and success and provide Improve staff development, recognising
varied trajectories through which they may
opportunities for development. progress their career.
In a competitive job Culture is important, and We will evaluate our colleagues'
Develop our support for Relieve administrative pressures staff face
market, our employment we understand that an experience through surveys
and allow them to focus on objectives.
offer will attract and retain environment which allows and data collection which are
health and wellbeing
talent by creating an our staff to be at their best sensitive to people's time. We aim Continue our work to codify and balance
inclusive community, is essential. We are committed to ensure that staff are confident workloads for all categories of staff to
reinforcing collegiality to listening and working they are valued by the University ensure equity.
and dedication to staff in partnership to make and their health and wellbeing
Enhance childcare and sports facilities on
wellbeing. this happen. is of paramount importance.
campus.
Build an inclusive working Develop, implement and embed the
University's first Equality, Diversity and
environment Inclusion Strategy.
Recognise the diversity of our staff body,
their circumstances and their needs, and
continue work around how we can best
support this for everyone's benefit.
12 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 13
Priority two:
BY 2027, WE WILL HOW
Our students'
experience. Develop dialogue Create a shared agenda for student
experience with the Students' Union,
and co-creation agreeing a clear mandate for each side.
Build an environment in which students can
with students
Studying at the University of Northampton will be a develop ideas and initiatives themselves,
including student societies and opportunities
transformative experience that creates opportunities to engage with our local communities.
Work with local stakeholders to develop a
for our students. During their time at the University
town-wide student accommodation strategy
and develop our accommodation portfolio to
our students develop academically, as well as socially.
offer as many students as possible
high-quality, affordable accommodation
They develop their social capital, their confidence in
on or near campus.
facing challenges, and the full set of skills they will need
Build an inclusive Optimise the enrolment and orientation
after graduation. Students are encouraged to have high
processes to be inclusive of and engaging
environment and to all students.
expectations of themselves, in an environment that
Work with local stakeholders to develop the
sense of belonging
enables all to succeed. town centre of Northampton to be more
student-friendly, with associated benefits for
the whole community.
We will achieve the best rich network of relationships all our students. We will develop
Make the digital experience equivalent
possible student experience and connections in the our student accommodation on
to the onsite experience for learning and
by fostering a culture wider world. and near our campus to benefit
of collaboration with study, belonging, wellbeing and community.
students. We will capture We are committed to access, social activities.
Construct modes of attendance and
the student voice and participation and student
personalised timetables that meet, as far as
feedback combined with success. The individuals who Evaluation of our students'
possible, the diversity of our students' needs.
other forms of evidence make up our student feedback to understand our
and data to adapt and community represent a wide strengths and weaknesses is
improve our students' range of backgrounds and vital. We will utilise data from
Develop our support for Ensure specific support for groups with
experiences of studying circumstances. We will ensure the National Student Survey
at the University. that all our students have an (NSS), Postgraduate Taught particular needs, such as international
excellent experience, whether Experience Survey (PTES) and health and wellbeing students.
We will work with key they study on campus, Postgraduate Research
Develop on-campus social and sports
stakeholders to make remotely, or at one of our Experience Survey (PRES), to
facilities that reflect the diversity of our
Northampton a compelling partner institutions. conduct our own surveys as
students and their needs, including outside
destination where our students appropriate, and take action
core working hours.
can expand their knowledge We want university life to be based on their insights to
and horizons and add to the enjoyable and successful for drive improvements.
14 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 15
Priority three:
Learning
and teaching.
BY 2027, WE WILL HOW
Our approach will always be led by the
Develop a truly inclusive Overcome award gaps between those
groups identified in the Access and
question: "what will our students need
academic community of Participation Plan.
when they graduate?" Develop Active Blended Learning for
staff and students that
subject, level and student experience.
co-creates learning at Develop interdisciplinarity across the
This question will inform will support students to We will ensure all our teaching
portfolio to support integrative approaches
our ongoing development undertake their own research, staff feel supported in their
the University for our students.
of excellent pedagogy for developing these skills from work and will offer learning and
a rounded set of graduate the start of their degree. teaching career pathways with
attributes, covering It will be inspiring, inclusive parity to research pathways.
knowledge, transferable and accessible, and will include Our teachers will build practice Innovate and develop Celebrate, reward and disseminate excellent
skills, and engagement with authentic and stretching as a community, reflect the practice in learning and teaching.
social and global challenges. assessments and real-world dynamic nature of our our methodology Introduce more flexible learning models,
learning experiences oriented education and fuse expertise including those available via the Lifelong
Our methodology is based and practice
towards employability. from academic, industry and Learning Entitlement.
around active learning in small
practitioner backgrounds.
Embed a negotiated learning and
groups, making the most of Our portfolio will respond to
assessment model.
digital platforms and tools and changing social and economic We will continue to target
focusing on interactions which dynamics, national priorities, Gold in the Teaching Excellence Operationalise the Joint Information
make the biggest difference engagement with employers Framework as an objective Systems Committee (JISC) digital
to learning. We will continue and other partners and - measure of success. We will transformation framework for learning
to refine this to reflect the crucially - the voice of our also achieve improvements and teaching.
in the percentage of our
diversity of our students' students. We will explore
undergraduate students
learning and foster belonging initiatives such as
continuing into the second
to a truly inclusive learning apprenticeship models, the Strengthen the supportive Develop the role of the Personal Academic
year of their degree, particularly
Tutor within a strengthened Integrated
community Lifelong Learning Entitlement, those from disadvantaged
environment for students Learner Support offering.
active distance learning and the backgrounds, through
Our pedagogy will be possibilities of extended reality innovative approaches to Develop placements/Real World Learning
to thrive
research-informed, and and artificial intelligence. students' learning outcomes. including authentic assessments, in all
programmes.
16 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 17
Priority four:
Research.
Research is integral to what we do and who we are
BY 2027, WE WILL HOW
as a University. We aim to be a truly research-based
institution - one in which excellence is embedded, Develop a research Align our research to meet regional, national
and international priorities.
and contributes to learning and teaching, knowledge environment and culture
Strive for operational excellence in terms
of research support and our systems and
exchange, social impact, enterprise and innovation, that prioritises quality
processes.
while we respond to the priorities of our communities. Target investment at areas with a strong
case for strategic development, supporting
interdisciplinary centres of excellence and
We already have areas of Our research environment We believe that having ambitious collaboration where we can.
strength in our research. We and culture will reflect and goals around research can, and
will build on these to develop support the diverse activities will, enrich the student
a consistent profile of quality and expertise of all our staff. experience. We will cultivate and
that is recognised inside and We will strive for operational codify links from research to
Create a culture of Codify workload planning to ensure that
outside of the University, excellence in processes, learning and teaching, developing
time allocated for research is consistent and
supporting interdisciplinary systems and support that priority themes across the two.
research ringfenced.
and collaborative work with underpin our research.
other organisations where This includes a commitment We will build towards the Enhance support for career progression
we can. We will engage in to recognise time for next national research exercise, pathways linked to research, including for
research that tackles research-related activity, to aiming for ambitious increases staff from professional backgrounds.
regional, national and global develop and support our staff in the quality of our outputs.
challenges, and delivers and student ambitions and to In the intervening years, we Broaden and deepen our partnerships with
meaningful and significant create an environment that will will track our progress through other organisations as key enablers of social
impact for the communities attract and retain talented internal peer review and impact, innovation and enterprise.
we serve. researchers. evaluation.
Embed stronger Increase the numbers of and support for
Postgraduate Research students, post docs
mechanisms to support and early career researchers.
Strive to make it possible for more of our
and capture our impact
staff to engage in research and contribute to
our research profile as an institution.
18 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 19
Our purpose:
Social impact.
Social impact is our ultimate purpose. We create social
impact through the transformative experience of our
BY 2027, WE WILL HOW
students. Our research, enterprise and engagement
with the wider world, and our diverse collaborations
Ensure our social impact Sharpen our approach to managing external
relationships, with optimised processes and
and partnerships will continue to transform lives,
benefits our external senior owners for key relationships.
communities and businesses for the better. Capture and report the social impact of
stakeholders
programmes/subject areas/departments
internally and externally.
Social impact will always be a creating social impact. We will be participation in impact
key feature of our education, clear around what our external assessments in the Research Help businesses and other stakeholders
and our students and our staff relationships mean to us, allowing Excellence Framework. We will understand their social impact, working with
will be socially conscious us to further develop also work with our academic them as partners.
changemakers, engaged in collaboration with our local experts at the University to
global challenges and communities, businesses and develop appropriate and Define and publicise Northampton's
confident of their role in government, and deploy our meaningful ways of measuring expertise in social impact for prospective
making positive contributions expertise to shape policy and our social impact. students, staff, partners and clients.
to address them. development in our town and
county. Our social impact will
We will refine our thinking around reach beyond Northampton to
the complex processes which the national and international Refine how we embed Develop our curriculum and teaching to
make our social impact happen canvas both through our own instil in our graduates social commitment
and how we evaluate it. We will activities and through our social impact at UON and understanding of the difference they
have a clear story around social partnerships.
can make.
impact and the pathways that
create it through our student We will evidence the social impact Introduce elective modules in specific social
experience, learning, teaching of our education through impact topics that students can undertake
and research. evaluating our students' alongside their course.
confidence in entering the job
Make the evaluation of a programme's
Relationships and external market, and the social impact of
contribution to social impact part of
engagement are fundamental in our research through our
validation and quality processes.
Introduce a UON degree apprenticeship
scheme for individuals from low social
economic areas of the county.
20 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 21
The foundations Foundation one:
Our campus, place
of our success.
and communities.
Our foundations will support the delivery of every
aspect of the strategy. While they may evolve over Our Waterside Campus reflects our ambition.
A home-from-home for our students, staff and local
time and as our circumstances develop, their crucial communities. Our campus will be full of life, host to a range
of learning, social and wellbeing experiences. It will bring
enabling role will be ongoing. people together, enabling our communities to mix while
building place and belonging. It will be environmentally
sustainable, supporting local ecology and biodiversity.
We will develop a framework appetite for the University to do Our horizons also extend beyond
to guide development on our more to make our work relevant Northamptonshire and we will
campus, ensuring these facilities to our local communities. This serve as a conduit between our
are prioritised whilst identifying may include supporting our locality and the wider world. We
opportunities to enhance our students to both learn and make will do this through our research
presence locally. a difference through placements and practice, which range from
or volunteering, supporting local local to global, and crucially the
We are a civic institution, with heritage activities, or working range of our external
strong roots in our town, our with local schools to support relationships through which we
community and our economy. more of their students to go will continue to learn, exchange
Local businesses and employers to university. knowledge and deploy expertise.
are key partners, offering
opportunities for our students, Our community extends beyond Also vital are our partnerships
and for developing our research our campus. Many of our in the UK and other countries,
and knowledge exchange. We students live further afield and which enrich the diversity of
will be a vital participant in local connect to us as their University our student body and offer
policy developments, partnering even if they only visit collaborative approaches
with government, business and occasionally. It also includes towards shared goals.
other anchor institutions to students at our partner
support development in our institutions and our alumni.
town and county. Our community-building will
reflect this, using both place
We will listen to our stakeholders and other forms of connection
and work with them towards to create common purpose
shared goals. We know there is and shared goals.
22 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 23
Foundation two: Foundation three:
How we work. Funding and
resourcing.
Looking to the future, it will be important that our ways
of working are supported by contemporary systems
To achieve our ambitions, we need to ensure that we
and processes which allow us to focus our attention on
can fund and resource them effectively.
the work we most value.
We have modelled the enablers such as IT and our the Higher Education sector
We will continue to focus on priorities, supporting a an integrated approach for
financial dimensions of our estate. This will support robust and its main income streams
this, and our approach will forward-looking culture and managing investment and
goals to 2027. This modelling financial planning and resource due to external factors beyond
be guided by transparent way of working. It will improve supporting planned resourcing
is at the high level to give us allocation up till our first target our control. We will continue
dialogue across our staff efficiency around basic of all areas, especially those
assurance that our year, 2027. to adapt to our external
body to develop solutions operations, making them which are growing. It will also
objectives are realistic. environment and any
in partnership. simpler and more reliable, serve to protect our financial
Our objectives are based on fluctuation in our expected
improve staff and students' sustainability, integrating this
It includes strategic initiatives the most up-to-date intelligence financial position accordingly.
By 2027, we will conduct a day-to-day experience by with our other aims as an
that we wish to undertake and and data. However, there is a
transformation programme for relieving their time to focus on institution.
essential investment for key high degree of uncertainty in
our systems, processes and what they most value, and
operating models, including support better informed We will also improve our
administrative and logistical decision making. This will capture and use of data
systems, and the tools that we ensure that our systems and to support informed
use for supporting core staffing models are resilient for decision-making and
business such as teaching and the future. governance and our ability
research. This will develop the to manage our performance
University's information and We will also review our and progress towards our goals.
technology provision to be a frameworks for planning and
true strategic enabler of our budgeting. This will establish
24 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 25
Afterword from Chair of the
University of Northampton
Board of Governors
Geoff Donnelly.
It is my pleasure to write this afterword for the new
strategy of the University of Northampton. My colleagues
and I have an enviable privilege to be its trustees,
bringing experience of the private, public and voluntary
sectors which rely on the teaching and research Higher
Education provides.
The Board is delighted to endorse this strategy, and thank the
staff, students and leadership of the University for their work
in developing it. Having worked in the corporate sector and
served on the Boards of several Higher Education institutions,
I am acutely aware that reflection on a wide array of viewpoints
leads to better planning, which informs decisions that move an
organisation collectively in the right way. That has been the
approach throughout the process that created the document
you now read. I trust that you will find it lays a clear path for
this University, and the foundation of great things to come.
During the time period covered by this strategy document
the University will be transitioning from its youth to maturity. -
The aim now is - through the delivery of its mission and living its
values - to become an exemplar for good practice in the sector
for social impact and inclusivity that will benefit our local,
national and international communities.
Geoff Donnelly
Chair of the University of Northampton
Board of Governors
-----
---' - ---' - -
- ... ._...__ -
- - -..
---"'-~'-~ ~ ~-~~
26 University of Northampton Strategy 2023 - 2027 27
University of
Northampton
Waterside Campus
University Drive
Northampton
NN1 5PH
01604 735500
northampton.ac.uk
Printed September 2023