University of Oxford
Strategic Plan
2018-23
Note: The Strategic Plan period has been extended by Council to 2024 because of the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic. This extension applies to all target dates in the Plan.
University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23
Scope Themes and COMMITMENT 2
commitments To offer an excellent academic
The University Strategic Plan sets out a
experience for all our students
framework of priorities for the University,
and ensure that Oxford fully equips
its divisions and departments. The
Education graduates to excel in whatever
Conference of Colleges has been consulted
they choose to do
during the drafting of the plan and colleges
Through a commitment to the
will be vital partners in its implementation. We will maintain the tutorial system at
personal education of each student,
The strategic plan will be underpinned by a the heart of Oxford's distinctive approach
we will provide a quality of education
more detailed implementation plan which to undergraduate teaching, and will
and experience which equips students
will be approved by the University Council ensure that ongoing support from a
with the values, skills and intellectual
and overseen by a programme board senior academic also continues to
discipline that will enable them to make
chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. underpin our approach to postgraduate
a positive contribution to society.
study. We will ensure that teaching and
assessment at Oxford provide an equal
Mission
opportunity for all students to achieve
COMMITMENT 1
and demonstrate their full academic
The advancement of learning by teaching
and research and its dissemination by To attract and admit students potential. We will work to reduce
every means. from all backgrounds with continuing gaps in attainment and
outstanding academic potential encourage greater diversity in
and the ability to benefit from assessment.
Vision
an Oxford education
Supporting student wellbeing is at the
We will work as one Oxford bringing To maintain and enhance its heart of our approach to providing the
together our staff, students and alumni, intellectual strength, the University greatest opportunity for all our students
our colleges, faculties, departments and must recruit and support students of to excel. We will work to strengthen the
divisions to provide world-class research outstanding potential at all levels, partnership between colleges, academic
and education. We will do this in ways whatever their background.To achieve departments and faculties, and central
which benefit society on a local, regional, this, we will strengthen and expand services to provide the welfare support
national and global scale. We will build on outreach activities, based on rigorous that our students need to flourish.
the University's long-standing traditions of evaluation of their effectiveness.
We will provide opportunities, through
independent scholarship and academic We will work closely with colleges,
and outside the curriculum, for our
freedom while fostering a culture in which academic departments and faculties
students to develop the personal and
innovation and collaboration play an to ensure effective coordination of
transferable skills to succeed in a global
important role. outreach activity. We will enhance
workplace. We will expand the number of
our undergraduate and graduate
We are committed to equality of funded internships and work-placement
admissions processes to ensure
opportunity, to engendering inclusivity, opportunities in the UK and overseas.
equality of opportunity for all
and to supporting staff and student We will also provide opportunities for
applicants, and to improve efficiency
wellbeing, ensuring that the very best skills enhancement and career preparation
and quality of service.
students and staff can flourish in our for all our research students.
community. We believe that a diverse staff We will review the collegiate
and student body strengthens our research University's financial support packages
and enhances our students' learning. to ensure that they are targeted in the COMMITMENT 3
most effective way. We will increase
The University's distinctive democratic To retain and refresh the collegiate
the funding available to support the
structure, born of its history, will continue University's rich academic
most able postgraduate taught and
to offer a source of strength. Likewise environment
research students, and increase the
Oxford's collegiate structure provides the
proportion of fully funded graduate
We will retain the best that Oxford has
University with key aspects of its academic
studentships.
to offer in its teaching, including close
strength and its highly attractive student
personal supervision and support,
experience. Oxford will continue to foster
access to world leading academics and
the interdisciplinary nature of the colleges,
unparalleled learning resources including
their teaching strength, and their defining
our libraries and collections. We will also
and enduring sense of community.
University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23
ensure that we respond to today's 6. Aim to offer by 2023 an additional COMMITMENT 2
opportunities and tomorrow's challenges. 2,000 funded internships for students
To invest in people, to support
We are committed to innovation and at all levels.
them and their research
excellence in teaching, and will seek
7. By 2023, in partnership with the environment, thereby enabling
improved ways of demonstrating this
private sector, to have started the the research endeavour to
in our academic staff recognition and
construction of 1,000 additional grow sustainably
reward processes. We will ensure that
graduate rooms including the
teaching is informed by best practice, an We will provide a conducive
establishment of at least one new
inclusive approach to learning and the environment for conducting research,
graduate college.
opportunities for innovation offered by with state-of-the-art facilities and
digital technology. infrastructure, appropriate support for
staff and students, and investment in the
We will accommodate growth in
training, support and wellbeing of our
student numbers that is strategically
Research staff. We will ensure that appropriate
important to deliver the University's core
measures are in place to attract the most
mission and academic priorities, whilst The University of Oxford is world-
able minds from across the world to
recognising our responsibility to preserve famous for its research excellence and
engage in our research.
and protect nationally vulnerable subjects. home to some of the most talented
We will continue to encourage the scientists and scholars from across the
development of new and innovative globe. Our work enhances the lives of
COMMITMENT 3
courses and fields of study to ensure millions, solving real-world problems
that our portfolio reflects advances in through an extensive network of To change the world for
knowledge and meets the needs of partnerships and collaborations. The the better
today's students. breadth of our research and the
Our research will impact the world
connections between disciplines drive
through new understanding that leads to
advancement in knowledge,
cultural, societal, political and economic
EDUCATION PRIORITIES understanding, innovation and
change. We are a global university with
creativity.
1. Set ambitious targets by April 2019 global ambition but have deep roots
to substantially increase by 2023 the locally and nationally. We will invest
further in the infrastructure to facilitate
number of undergraduate places offered
COMMITMENT 1
regional, national and international
to students from groups who are
currently under-represented at Oxford. To promote and enable ambitious collaboration, in the skills and people to
research of exceptional quality provide capacity for such collaboration,
2. Aim to create by 2023 an additional and engage with the Global South. We
300 graduate scholarships. Ambitious discovery-led research aim to maximise the cultural, social and
undertaken to the highest standards of
economic benefit derived from our
3. Set ambitious targets by April 2019 to rigour and integrity has the potential to
research regionally, nationally and across
reduce by 2023 gaps in attainment by create the greatest impact. We will
the world.
gender, ethnic origin and socio-economic provide our researchers with the
background. freedom to investigate problems of
significance, whether their work be
4. Aim to increase by 2023 RESEARCH PRIORITIES
curiosity-driven or challenge-led. The
undergraduate student intake by up to
breadth and depth of Oxford's disciplinary 8. Enhance the opportunities and support
200 a year, with a focus on strategically
expertise enables us to lead international for early-career researchers.
important subjects areas including
research agenda across the sciences,
computer science, engineering, 9. Invest substantially in the research
social sciences and humanities, and to
biomedical science and joint degrees in environment, both human and physical
convene multidisciplinary and
economics. (including the estate, libraries, collections,
international teams to address the
equipment and IT) by 2023.
5. Aim to increase by 2023 most significant problems facing the
postgraduate taught student intake by up world today. 10. Increase the scale and scope of our
to 450 a year and postgraduate research central research fund to grow our
student intake by up to 400 a year, while capacity to pump-prime, and match-fund
maintaining quality. major research initiatives.
University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23
11. Engage with business, NGOs and COMMITMENT 2 consideration the work environment,
others to grow the volume and value of housing, childcare, visas, pensions
To work towards an increasingly
non-public-sector-funded research on and salary.
diverse staffing profile
a sustainable basis.
15. Create a policy and practice
We believe that the broad range of
12. Continue to broaden and invest in environment that is supportive of
cultural and other experiences that a
our innovation activities and foster the wellbeing, where responsibility for
diverse workforce brings will help the
entrepreneurial environment for staff wellbeing is shared and owned by all.
University maintain and develop its
and students.
international outlook, strengthening its 16. Put in place creative and consistent
research and teaching. We will foster an measures to help our staff to balance
inclusive culture that promotes equality competing demands on their time, both
of opportunity, values diversity and within their roles and between their
People maintains a working, learning and social working and home lives, including
environment in which the rights and developing our childcare provision and
People are the foundation of the dignity of all our staff and students are flexible working policies, and enabling
University's success and the quality of respected. We will amplify the voices of academic staff to vary their duties over
our academic, research, professional under-represented groups in leadership the course of their career.
and support staff is critical to our future. and decision-making and work to
In order for Oxford to remain a world- eliminate any barriers to their success. 17. Develop an equitable and transparent
leading institution for research and means of allocating new affordable
teaching we must continue to attract, homes for University and college staff
recruit and support talented individuals (see priority 28).
COMMITMENT 3
and provide a diverse, inclusive, fair and
18. Review and improve our current
open environment that allows staff to To support staff in personal and
arrangements to support the personal
grow and flourish. professional development
and career development of all staff.
Our Human Resources policies and Personal and professional development
processes provide the framework for is key to enabling individuals to reach
departments and faculties to support their full potential and maximise their
their people and to respond to the contribution to the University. We will
Engagement and
ever-changing external environment. encourage staff at all levels to participate
partnership
in planning their personal development
and we will strengthen and promote our
By enhancing the public engagement,
COMMITMENT 1 development programmes for all staff,
knowledge exchange and innovation
regardless of their employment status.
culture of the University, we aim to
To attract, recruit and retain the In particular, we will provide dedicated
ensure that our research and education
highest calibre staff personal development support for
benefit wider publics in the Oxford
early-career research staff and will
In order to ensure that the University region, across the UK and globally.
ensure that those with management and
remains world-leading we must To this end we will work in partnership
leadership responsibilities are supported
continue to recruit and retain the very with public, private, voluntary
to be effective in those roles.
best staff. We will ensure that our and commercial organisations, and
reward arrangements, including pension our alumni.
provision, are robust, transparent and
competitive. We will address the PEOPLE PRIORITIES
challenges of living in Oxford by
13. Embed a supportive, inclusive culture COMMITMENT 1
providing excellent childcare provision
and increase the diversity of University
and increasing the availability and To work with partners to create a
staff at all levels through the
affordability of staff accommodation. world-class regional innovation
implementation of our action plans such
ecosystem
We will actively promote health and as Athena SWAN, the Race Equality
wellbeing so that our people are able Charter, the Stonewall Workplace Equality Enterprise and innovation are
to give their best to their work and feel Index and Mindful Employer. fundamental to Oxford's continuing
valued, and we will support working research success and to its positive
14. Ensure that Oxford remains an
parents and all those with caring impact on society. They position the
attractive place to work, taking into
responsibilities. University and the region as a place
University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23
of opportunity which will attract the COMMITMENT 3 economies and key partners, across
best researchers and students from the full spectrum of our research and
To engage with the public and policy
around the world. scholarly activity. We will maintain our
makers to shape our research and
commitment to in-depth study of the
Working with our Local Enterprise education and to encourage the
world's societies and cultures, supported
Partnership, local councils, national widest possible use of our research
by the outstanding breadth of our
government, Harwell and Culham science findings and expertise
expertise in languages, ancient and
campuses, Oxford Sciences Innovation,
Working in partnership with government, modern. We will work to preserve and
and local and global business, we will
business, cultural organisations and increase access to funding and networks
foster an environment which nurtures
others, we will look to inform the public to undertake our research and collaborate
social and commercial entrepreneurs.
and public policy through our research with suitable partners wherever they
We will invest in our capacity to findings. We will also shape our research may be located, enabling both small-
increase collaborative research activity agenda, in part, through focusing and large-scale research collaborations.
with business, industry and other attention on the issues of greatest We will seek to improve mobility
external organisations, and provide social importance. opportunities for students, support
enhanced support for spinouts and the role of our staff and students in
start-ups derived from our research We believe that public engagement an interconnected world and raise the
through the work of Oxford University enriches research and society and, to profile of our research and teaching
Innovation. We will increase co-location that end, are committed to enabling our internationally.
researchers to inspire, consult and
and co-working with businesses
collaborate with the public. We seek to
alongside our academic research
embed high-quality and innovative public
(establishing innovation centres) and ENGAGEMENT AND PARTNERSHIP
engagement as an integral part of our
will actively engage in the formation PRIORITIES
research culture and practice.
of innovation districts.
19. Expansion of the innovation districts
We will be an active partner in the
in and around Oxford, including at
development of open scholarship,
Begbroke Science Park and Osney Mead.
COMMITMENT 2 providing the tools necessary for
researchers to publish and share outputs 20. Continued investment in digital tools
To build a stronger and more
from their research and to support and infrastructure to be a leader in open
constructive relationship with our
national and international collaboration. scholarship and support open access to
local and regional community
Through continuing digital investment collections and research data outputs.
We believe that it is vitally important that the University will reach global audiences
21. Continue to improve the breadth and
the University benefits local citizens. We and communities.
depth of public engagement through
will aim to increase the scale of innovation
Oxford University Press will further the events and programmes delivered
and translation in the medical and health
University's objectives of excellence in through multiple mechanisms, including
sciences, including with our local NHS
research, scholarship and education by the academic divisions and the Gardens,
partners. We will continue to provide
publishing worldwide in the three Libraries and Museums (GLAM).
gateways for public engagement with the
intersecting markets of research,
research and teaching of the University 22. Expand strategic international
education and the learning of English.
via exhibitions, public education, schools research collaborations.
and outreach programmes, including
23. Support and expand international
through the University Botanic Garden
COMMITMENT 4 mobility opportunities for undergraduate
and Arboretum, Museums and Libraries,
and postgraduate students including
and the Oxford Research Centre in the Through our international
non-term-time internships and
Humanities. We are committed to engagement the University will
on-course opportunities to study,
working in partnership to increase our aim to maximise the global social,
undertake research or gain work
cultural, societal and economic impact cultural and economic benefit
experience abroad.
at both local and regional levels. derived from our research and
scholarship 24. Inform, empower and mobilise
We will reach out to non-traditional
alumni to become more knowledgeable
learners through the work of our Our international engagement will
and involved in support of the wider
Department for Continuing Education maintain and enhance strong institutional
University.
offering flexible and blended (digital and links across the globe, including those
traditional) learning. with the European Union, emerging
University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23
Resources COMMITMENT 2 infrastructure which enables all staff
and students to communicate effectively,
To ensure that our estate provides
Oxford University benefits from the share information securely and collaborate
an environment which promotes
careful stewardship of resources by locally and globally. With a continuing
world-class research and education
previous generations - ensuring that focus on training and best-practice
whilst minimising our environmental
the University remains both financially dissemination we aim to empower
impact, conserving our historic
and environmentally sustainable into teachers and researchers to innovate,
built environment and improving
the future is critical. Enhancing the staff to use IT systems effectively, and
our space utilisation
efficiency and effectiveness of our students to improve their digital literacy
support services by simplifying A prioritised capital programme will be for discovering, evaluating and creating
systems and working together more developed which will ensure that the information using digital technologies.
collaboratively will be key to delivering
existing estate is refurbished and
a sustainable platform to underpin our
renewed and that it is complemented
education and research.
with new buildings. New buildings COMMITMENT 4
will be designed flexibly and to the
To raise funds to support the very
highest standards of accessibility
best students, invest in our staff
COMMITMENT 1 and environmental sustainability, in
and their work, and provide new
accordance with the University's
To manage our financial resources resources and infrastructure
commitment to the Low Carbon
to ensure the collegiate University's
Oxford charter, and will meet the We will ensure that fundraising and
long-term sustainability
users' research and education needs. outreach efforts concentrate on those
We recognise that effective control of areas where we can be most effective
A staff and student housing programme
the University's resources underpins all and which address most strongly the
will be developed to deliver additional
our aspirations. The University will strategic goals of the University.
accommodation to mitigate the impact
actively manage both its income and
of the high cost of private-sector RESOURCES PRIORITIES
expenditure in an agile and responsive
accommodation in Oxford. Where the
manner which enables the University
opportunity and location allows, we will 25. Diversify sources of income and
to react swiftly and effectively to any
acquire properties which will ensure that investment including through partnership
changes in the external funding
the estate can develop and expand to meet with the private sector, commercial
environment. Key to this will be
the needs of research and education. activities, philanthropy and the breadth
protecting and growing our income
of sources of research funding.
streams by diversifying our income We will increase the opportunities for
sources and pursuing an ambitious staff and students to travel sustainably 26. Through the Focus programme
development strategy which seeks to around Oxford on bike or foot, benefitting deliver service and process improvements
fund our core long-term academic their health and wellbeing and improving to allow the continued growth in research
activities. The University will also the local environment through traffic- and education without an equivalent
seek to better integrate its support free cycle and pedestrian routes. growth in service costs.
structures, to ensure that its excellent
27. Deliver a capital investment
teaching and research is complemented
programme in the estate and IT of at
by similarly excellent professional
COMMITMENT 3 least £500 million by 2023.
services. This will deliver an improved
working environment for all staff and To continue to invest in our 28. By 2023, in partnership with the
deliver significant cost reductions by information technology capability to private sector, to have started the
driving out inefficiencies. enhance the quality of our research construction of at least 1,000 new
and education and to streamline our subsidised homes for University and
administrative processes college staff.
We will invest in our information 29. Devise and implement a development
technology in order to increase research strategy, appropriately resourced, which
capability, enhance teaching and learning, accords with the scale and ambition of
and deliver efficiencies in support of the University's strategic objectives.
administrative functions. We will deliver
Approved by Council 9 July 2018 and by Congregation on 30 October 2018