Skip to main content
Skip to Ask a Librarian chat
What can we help you find?
Lincoln Memorial lantern slide
Art, Architecture, and Engineering Library TODAY: ...
Taubman Health Sciences Library TODAY: ...
View all hours, locations, and access details
We're here to help
Use Research Guides Find how-tos and resources by academic subject, course, or special research area.
Find how-tos and resources by academic subject, course, or special research area.
Find a Specialist Search by subject or specialty to find experts who can offer guidance.
Search by subject or specialty to find experts who can offer guidance.
Ask a Librarian We can help you locate library resources, connect with a specialist, or find support at any stage of your project.
We can help you locate library resources, connect with a specialist, or find support at any stage of your project.
Request Items for Pick Up or Delivery Get the materials you need, whether they're in our collections or not.
Request Items for Pick Up or Delivery
Get the materials you need, whether they're in our collections or not.
Access Online Resources Gain on and off-campus access to extensive online resources through the library.
Gain on and off-campus access to extensive online resources through the library.
We don’t currently have any upcoming events scheduled or exhibits on display.
Study at the library
See a list of all our study spaces and filter it by building, noise level, and features to find your ideal spot.
February 11, 2026 Preserving the digital past
February 11, 2026 Where's the data?
February 11, 2026 Where's the data?
February 1, 2026 Black History Month
February 1, 2026 Black History Month
January 13, 2026 New search tool supports open access publishing
January 13, 2026 New search tool supports open access publishing
November 11, 2025 Kasdan archive comes home
November 11, 2025 Kasdan archive comes home
November 5, 2025 Ortelius atlas, part 1: The first modern atlas
November 5, 2025 Ortelius atlas, part 1: The first modern atlas