Open mind,
open attitude,
open science
STRATEGIC PLAN 2030
Open mind, open attitude,
open science
STRATEGIC PLAN 2030
WE WORK TOWARDS A BETTER WORLD...
...THROUGH FIVE GUIDING PRINCIPLES ...FROM SEVEN FACULTIES AND ...BY CONNECTING OUR RESEARCH AND
AND SOLID BUSINESS OPERATIONS TWO EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTES EDUCATION TO FOUR STRATEGIC THEMES
COLLABORATING ACROSS BORDERS Science
DYNAMICS
We collaborate in education Equal and reciprocal collaborations OF YOUTH
and research, through knowledge In the city, region, and in Europe
Veterinary Medicine
sharing, innovation and Targeted choices for Global Engagement
entrepreneurship.
Humanities INSTITUTIONS FOR
FUTURE-PROOF EDUCATION OPEN SOCIETIES
Focused on quality, innovation Utrecht educational model in Geosciences
and student success. all degree programmes
Responsible AI LIFE
Medical Science
SCIENCES
OPEN SCIENCE
Law, Economics
We make an impact through Research data are findable, accessible,
and Governance
knowledge sharing and meaningful interoperable and reusable PATHWAYS TO
collaborations. Everyone's Recognition and Rewards SUSTAINABILITY
contribution matters. Public engagement
Social and Behavioural
Sciences
ENGAGED COMMUNITY
We have an open culture, Open and honest conversations in a safe University College Utrecht
in which togetherness, equality and inclusive culture
and a common focus are central. Investing in leadership development
University College Roosevelt
FOCUS ON SUSTAINABLE TRANSITIONS
It is our social task to take In education and research
responsibility in the climate crisis. Green campus
Carbon-neutral and zero waste
ORGANISATION
Work in education, research and Simplifying business processes
business operations all contribute Making financial strategies more sustainable
to the success of the university, Digital sovereignty
its employees and students.
Foreword
Utrecht University is a leading, internationally oriented
Foreword - 5 university accommodating a broad range of humanities,
Utrecht University's mission and vision - 6 social sciences, natural sciences and life sciences. We aim
Introduction - 8 for our knowledge to benefit society, so that the public
Utrecht University's profile and identity - 12 investments we receive contribute to the community in
Collaborating across borders - 19 the form of relevant, up-to-date and useful knowledge
Future-proof education - 25 and skills.
Open Science - 31
Engaged community - 37 Our strategy provides direction for the period up to 2030.
Focus on sustainable transitions - 41 The plan is formulated in broad terms, with a limited number
Organisation - 46 of strategic ambitions. There is much more going on than
Creation and implementation is described in this plan: we do wonderful and relevant
of Strategic Plan 2030 - 50 research, provide inspiring and innovative education and
achieve impact in connection with our many partners and
with the involvement of the general public. That is the core
of our social mission and this plan will not change that.
We describe what we are going to do more of, the changes we
plan to make, the emphases we will add, and where we are
going to slightly adjust our direction with respect to some
themes. In doing so, we will make conscious choices and set
realistic priorities.
We are grateful for the all the great work our staff have done,
and we are proud of all our students. We see a great deal of
talent, curiosity, creativity an commitment among them,
and that inspires our confidence for the future.
Deans, Scientific Directors for the Strategic Themes
and Executive Board
4 5
CHAPTER 1
Utrecht University's
mission and vision
We work towards a better world by taking a cross-
disciplinary approach to researching complex issues.
We form alliances because we believe that this will help us
to make progress. We connect thinkers to doers to ensure
that new insights are put into practice. We give students
ample room to grow and develop. In this way, we make
substantial contributions to society, both now and for
the future.
In solving the world's problems, we aim high and are
committed to steering necessary transformations. We see
the university as a catalyst for change and that is how
we want to collaborate with and so contribute to society.
We live in a rapidly changing world. Global issues are complex:
they are not restricted to particular generations or regions,
and cannot be resolved from a single perspective. Themes such
as climate change, wealth sharing and healthy living demand
an interdisciplinary approach. Scientific insights are required
to solve these issues.
We are guided by our core values of ambition, engagement,
inspiration and independence.
6 7
CHAPTER 2 There are currently hotbeds of tension and wars on several continents,
including in Europe. Nationalism, populism and right-wing extremism
Introduction
are increasingly taking hold in societies, putting pressure on academic
freedom in and the security of Europe, and therefore also affecting
Utrecht University's Strategic Plan 2030 consists of five guiding the Netherlands. This has an impact on domestic and international
principles, specifically Collaborating across borders, Future-proof cooperation and affects our community.
education, Open Science, Engaged community, and Focus on
sustainable transitions. Prior to these chapters, however, the Profile Partly as a result of geopolitical developments, increased alertness
and Identity chapter describes who we are and what we stand for. and measures are required to maintain knowledge and information
The Organisation chapter is new, and covers developments in our security. This affects the way we share knowledge and information
business operations. It is not a guiding principle, but is essential (Open Science), the accessibility of certain research areas and also
for achieving our ambitions and carrying out our core missions funding flows (Collaboration).
of education, research, impact and patient care. Chapters 4 to 9,
covering the five guiding principles and the Organisation chapter, Democracy, the rule of law and our knowledge institutions are under
conclude with guiding strategic ambitions. increasing pressure. People are questioning the independence of
institutions and are increasingly less receptive to facts and truth-
Our strategy leading up to 2030 is based upon continuing our current telling. This necessitates openness and transparency about research
direction. We will build upon what we have started, provide further depth processes and results and the involvement of external partners and
on themes and reinforce and/or secure the established lines and results in the general public (Open Science).
the existing organisation. We will indicate where we are intensifying our
efforts, as well as where new emphasis will be placed. Naturally, we will Digitalisation and artificial intelligence (AI) are affecting our
also take into account the developments and changes in the world education, research and business operations. Due to geopolitical
around us. developments, we want to reduce our dependence on 'big tech'.
This also requires us to be prepared for the opportunities
EXTERNAL DEVELOPMENTS and risks associated with AI and our view of them.
The university is at the heart of society. We are living in an era of
rapid and major changes, in a world that sometimes appears to be Issues relating to sustainability, in particular the climate crisis and
simultaneously threatening and under threat. The university can the loss of biodiversity and the societal disruptions that could be
contribute to solutions for some complex, international situations and the result in the coming years, are becoming increasingly urgent.
threats. With respect to other developments, however, those opportunities Due to differences of opinion, many 'green' investments and measures
are limited. These developments may impact our community and our are being reversed, with global consequences. We are contributing to
education and research agenda. Accordingly, they also affect our people. necessary transitions by means of our education and research. In our
The most prominent external developments for the university in 2025 own organisation, we apply the 'practise what you teach' principle.
are as follows:
8 9
The world is under pressure, and with it the well-being of people,
community partners and the wider public are more important in this
including our students and staff. Equality, safety and inclusiveness
than ever before.
are and will continue to be important pillars of our community.
We research and monitor mental resilience; look after our people
DECISIVE AND AGILE
and provide relevant support and guidance chains (Community). Solid finances and the organisation's decisiveness and power are essential
preconditions for implementing our strategy. We therefore continue to
Falling student intake, autonomous personnel and material cost work on strengthening leadership, transparent policy and decision-making
increases and shrinking government resources call for the university processes, appropriate governance structures and improving managerial
to make financial adjustments (Organisation). and internal communications. Perhaps even more important than these
instrumental adjustments, is working together to create a culture based on
INTERNAL DEVELOPMENTS respect for each other's roles and responsibilities. In this culture, we trust
Differences in views on the developments outlined above and on how
each other and are generous in granting each other concessions, we adhere
to relate to them sometimes lead to polarisation and feelings of unsafety,
to agreements, we have the courage to call each other to account, and we
including within the university. This leads to the question of whether
reduce the number of consultations and e-mails. The university is doing
academic activism is accepted, or necessary. The question also arises as
well, partly because we are permanently working on this and continuing
to whether the university as an institution should take a position,
to develop.
for example in relation to war situations. Recent experience reveals that
finding a path through this is difficult in a large, diverse, free and open
community like ours. In accordance with our academic identity,
we continue to make nuanced considerations. We do this using assessment
frameworks, which are partly based on academic insights, and we continue
to discuss them. This can lead to the adoption of positions, but need
not do so.
INDEPENDENT AND TRANSPARENT SCIENCE
The university possesses a great deal of knowledge on topics that touch
on the aforementioned developments and other relevant themes. Utrecht
University continues to contribute to a free, safe and democratic society
and a healthy world precisely by applying our knowledge independently.
Based on our social mission and engagement, we continue to participate
in the public debate, standing up for our academics, who share their
knowledge with society in a polarised, sometimes even hostile,
environment. We actively offer them support and, where necessary,
protection. Openness, transparency about who we are, how we arrive
at insights and produce knowledge, and reciprocal collaborations with
10 11
CHAPTER 3 PROFILE
Our profile is defined by four major strategic themes. Our ambition is to be
Utrecht University's
recognised and acknowledged in the field of these themes and, within this,
profile and identity to be responsive to external developments and societal issues that require
solutions.
Utrecht University's ambition is to contribute
to a better world through high-quality education Dynamics of Youth focuses on how to support children,
and research. The social challenges we face adolescents and young adults in their development into
can only be solved by working together. Thanks resilient and engaged adults in a rapidly changing world full
to the wide range of disciplines that Utrecht of both uncertainties and opportunities. After all, investing in
University has at its disposal, it is ideally their well-being and future is an investment in the inclusive
equipped to initiate necessary transformations. and just society of tomorrow.
We have a solid, essential disciplinary
foundations, based upon which people can Institutions for Open Societiesfocuses on examining the
connect across disciplinary boundaries. contribution of institutions and formal/informal rules to
Our students and alumni are well-equipped to sustainable prosperity, equality and democracy and thus
contribute to a rapidly changing society that is to an open and resilient society.
also under threat in a variety of ways.
Life Sciences focuses on the search for innovations in
Through our close ties and productive cooperation sustainable, human, veterinary and plant health and
with other local, national and international resilience, aiming to create a healthy world for future
knowledge institutions, community partners, generations.
governments and private parties, we merge
knowledge from academia and practice in order to Pathways to Sustainability focuses on research into how
arrive together at even better, workable approaches systems in our society can be transformed for greater
or solutions. In doing so, we welcome international sustainability, and thereby contribute to a better world.
education and research talent, which is and will
continue to be of great importance by bringing in
different perspectives and expertise. Through these themes, we are working towards solutions for the major
social issues of our time. The themes permeate our education and research
and facilitate collaboration across disciplinary boundaries. Researchers
from multiple faculties participate in each theme. Our cooperation across
subject and sector boundaries is enhanced by our partnership in the
EWUU alliance with UMC Utrecht, Wageningen University & Research and
Eindhoven University of Technology. Closer to home, at Utrecht Science
12 13
Park and in the city and region, we have also developed a strong ecosystem Utrecht University is internationally renowned for its high-quality
for knowledge development and exchange. education, among other things. Over the past period, we have recalibrated
the Utrecht education model. This model is based on our educational
IDENTITY vision and includes both the profile of our graduates and the structure and
Utrecht University stands out not only for its content profile but also, characteristics of our education. The model will guide innovations in and
and perhaps especially, for the way we work. The collaboration, connections adjustments to education in the coming years.
and powerful communities within the university strengthen us in everything
we do. We seek each other out, inspire each other and pay attention to each Based on our educational vision, we have described graduate attributes
other. We collaborate across boundaries of organisational units and disciplines that give value-driven direction to the knowledge and skills with which
and with external partners and alumni. In doing so, we look for opportunities we want to equip our students during their studies. In addition to the
to co-create, strengthen each other and learn from each other. A culture of important qualifying function of academic knowledge and skills, we also
equality, diversity and inclusion is important to us, as are social safety and the attach great importance to personal development and socialisation as goals
well-being of staff and students. We offer an inclusive and stimulating work of academic education. We offer students a lot of freedom of choice to
and study environment and continue to develop in this respect. develop themselves broadly, across disciplines, in contact with community
stakeholders and with an international orientation. At the same time,
As Utrecht University, we believe that scientific knowledge should we support our students in preparing well for the job market.
not remain within the university, but should translate to society. Our education is geared towards an inclusive and stimulating study
We therefore ensure meaningful interaction with the city and the region environment. For our students, the city and Science Park campuses,
and actively seek connection with governments, community organisations, the cultural offerings and the wide range of student societies and student
entrepreneurial networks and less organised entities such as citizens, organisations make an important contribution to a rich study and learning
neighbourhood residents or young people for this purpose. By linking the environment and an unforgettable study career.
knowledge we develop to regional societal challenges, we increase our impact
in the society we are part of. Our partnerships enable us to set up research and Our university is proud of its broad and active teaching community and
education projects with high social relevance. has a long tradition of valuing education and providing space for both
education and teacher development. This is also reflected in our staff
EDUCATION policy, which is partly inspired by the principles of Recognition & Rewards,
Our academic staff are active in both education and research. one of the themes in Open Science. It concerns our way of working,
Our education is therefore fuelled by research and helps our students develop a which focuses on team spirit, cooperation, development and personal
solid academic foundation. The world is changing and so should our education, leadership. Recognition and rewards can translate into a career step,
which is innovative, flexible and future-proof. We invest in innovative for example on the basis of results in education, but often it is also about
educational concepts, and in recent years we have worked to broaden our space for employees to develop themselves professionally and personally.
Continuing Education offerings. Alumni are explicitly involved in these The guiding principle in our view of the community is that everyone's
developments. We embrace Open Education. This part of contribution counts: after all, we are all working together to realise
Open Science focuses on developing and delivering open, accessible education, Utrecht University's mission and ambitions.
in consultation with community stakeholders.
14 15
RESEARCH but also more broadly to the earning power of the Netherlands. We achieve
Our education is informed by our research, which has a high-quality the greatest impact by educating and training young people from the
fundamental and disciplinary foundation. Our interdisciplinary work is undergraduate to the PhD stage. They are the critical global citizens and
based upon this. By aligning and uniting different disciplinary perspectives, future policymakers, innovators and administrators who will help shape
we achieve a broader understanding of a topic or issue (multidisciplinarity). the world of tomorrow.
Ideally, we prefer to go a little further by integrating different perspectives
to make even better sense of complex issues (interdisciplinarity).
Moreover, through collaboration and co-creation with community partners,
we enrich our research with knowledge and experiences gained from
practice (transdisciplinarity). Research groups and individual researchers
collaborate internationally, and Utrecht University is an active member
of leading European knowledge networks such as the League of European
Research Universities and the Coimbra Group.
The university is open, reliable and integrated into society. This is
underpinned by the Open Science values, in which we are nationally
and internationally recognised frontrunners. Research results become
accessible to the general public through Open Science. Sharing scientific
information through open access, FAIR data and software, and public
engagement, are increasingly commonplace in this regard. We stand for
an open academic culture that promotes accountability, reproducibility,
integrity and transparency. Collaboration with community partners makes
our research more relevant and helps to align our education with our
students' future work environment.
IMPACT
Realising social impact is core to our mission as a university;
we create value for society. We often do this in collaboration and co
-creation with our community partners. The value can be financially-
economically oriented, but is usually richer and broader than that.
The results of our research contribute directly or indirectly to positive
changes in society - locally, nationally and elsewhere in the world.
We gain profound insights, impart knowledge, make discoveries and create
inventions, and help shape transformative developments in society.
We also contribute to economic development not only in the region,
16 17
CHAPTER 4
Collaborating
across borders
Major challenges such as climate change,
protection of democratic values, growing up
healthy, socioeconomic security, migration,
and increasing the resilience of society
cannot be solved through a single discipline
or perspective or by one organisation alone.
For this reason, Utrecht University works
together with other knowledge institutions,
educational partners, community organisations,
governments and private partners, across
disciplinary boundaries, in the city and the
region, in the Netherlands and worldwide.
We are at the heart of society and want the
results of our education and research to benefit
society. It is partly for this reason that we adopt
transdisciplinary approaches, bringing together
knowledge from science and practice. As a result,
we achieve richer results that contribute to solutions
for real social issues. We collaborate in education
and research on the basis of equality and reciprocity,
through knowledge sharing, innovation and
entrepreneurship. We are committed to sustainable
partnerships and strengthening public engagement.
We shape cooperation in different ways.
18 19
NATIONAL knowledge security, academic independence, human rights and financial
Utrecht Science Park forms a strong and vibrant ecosystem in and organisational feasibility. Specifically, we are planning a greater focus
which knowledge institutions, companies and public organisations on collaborations within Europe. We are active participants in several
work together. We join forces here with our two direct partners, European networks such as the League of European Research Universities,
University Medical Center Utrecht and University of Applied the Coimbra Group and the CHARM-EU education alliance.
Sciences Utrecht. We also collaborate with dozens of local
innovative companies and renowned research institutions. We nurture the many existing institutional collaborations and support
This makes the Science Park a key driver in the Utrecht and academics in entering into new relevant collaborations. We also make
regional knowledge-based economy. Further afield, throughout the best possible use of European funding opportunities.
the city and region, we are part of a large network of education
partners, ranging from primary and secondary schools, to ROCs In addition to focusing on Europe, we are investing more broadly in
(regional training centres) and the University of Applied Global Engagement. The university aims to be a leading international
Sciences Utrecht. centre of knowledge, and part of a global community of critical thinkers
in order to accelerate positive change. In doing so, we are looking
We have a wide range of teacher training programmes, explicitly at cooperation with partners in the Global South1.
including academic primary school teacher training, and develop
and share knowledge on matters such as teacher shortages, equal GEOPOLITICS AND SECURITY
opportunity and education and youth. We contribute to continuous Geopolitical developments create more urgency in the broad area of
learning tracks from ROCs to university, such as in the Delta security. This not only touches on international cooperation, it also affects
Climate Center. funding flows and the accessibility of certain research areas. We are
therefore implementing measures in different security domains, including
Nationally, we cooperate in research and education in the EWUU knowledge and information security. Embracing Open Science may seem
alliance with Eindhoven University of Technology, Wageningen to be at odds with this, and alertness is certainly called for. We make
University & Research and University Medical Center Utrecht. careful trade-offs between openness and confidentiality, and apply clear
In this collaboration, we are highly complementary in terms guidelines and ethical considerations with respect to knowledge-sharing
of content, and we work together particularly on the broad and cooperation with domestic and foreign partners. At the same time,
research themes of Preventive Health and Circular Society. we plan to explore how we can contribute to enhancing national and
We develop new education together. This cooperation has been European security and resilience.
strengthened and expanded in the recent past and we will
continue this development in the coming period. INTERNAL COOPERATION
Internal cooperation is an important foundation for fruitful collaborations
IINTERNATIONAL with others. The strategic themes are meaningful networks in which
In our international orientation, we make targeted choices when researchers and teachers from different faculties and disciplines
entering into or maintaining collaborations. In doing so, we take collaborate. The themes contribute to, and help shape, interdisciplinary
into consideration factors such as our strategy, social relevance, undergraduate and graduate education, Continuing Education and public
20 21
engagement. Degree programmes, faculties and departments actively
and structurally coordinate their education so that students have ample
freedom of choice to combine educational modules from different
disciplines and degree programmes. This is facilitated by aspects such
as the design of our teaching timetable and the set-up of our logistics.
STRATEGIC AMBITIONS
We are investing
more broadly in
1 We are reinforcing the transdisciplinary approach
in our research and education and working more Global Engagement.
with community partners on complex issues.
The university aims
2 Specifically, we are strengthening our cooperation
with partners in, and residents of, the city and to be a leading
region of Utrecht, focusing on an equitable,
international centre
resilient and sustainable environment for all.
3 We are focusing more than ever on collaborations
of knowledge,
with European partners, and are making make
targeted choices for Global Engagement. and part of a global
community of critical
thinkers in order
to accelerate
positive change.
1 The Global South includes Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia (excluding Israel, Japan
nd South Korea) and Oceania (excluding Australia and New Zealand).
22 23
CHAPTER 5
Future-proof
education
Education is a core task in our social mission.
By educating young people, from the
undergraduate to the PhD stage, and offering
a wide range of educational offerings for alumni
and professionals, the university contributes to
a better world. We train our students to become
critical global citizens who recognise
the importance of an open society and
a healthy planet.
The world is changing and we are responding to
this in our education. Not only in terms of content,
through the strong interconnection with our state-
of-the-art research and our interaction and co-
creation with community partners, but also through
the way we design our education and research.
Educational development and innovation emerge
from a balance between bottom-up initiatives and
top-down direction, in a solid ecosystem that fosters
teacher development, education innovation and
research on education.
UTRECHT EDUCATIONAL MODEL
Over the past period, we have recalibrated the
Utrecht education model in line with innovative
developments in the field of education. The model
ensures even better alignment with societal
challenges and the university's substantive vision.
Characteristic features of our education include
24 25
the way it intertwines with research, interdisciplinarity, freedom of
choice, activating learning in context-rich environments, inclusive
learning communities, professional and engaged teachers, assessment as
a learning tool, and a culture of quality and reflection. The principles of
Open Science and Open Education are part of the design principles and
infuse our education (see also Chapter 6). In the coming years, we will
further implement and secure the Utrecht educational model in all our
degree programmes.
Our educational model consists of a vision that we have translated into
graduate attributes, and design principles for designing education and
the learning and teaching environment.
1. In our educational vision, we describe the goal of education, which
is a strong academic foundation, with emphasis on inter- and
transdisciplinary cooperation, involvement in society, and personal
development towards independence and responsibility.
2. The graduate attributes outline the profile of our graduates.
Our education focuses on qualification, socialisation and personal
development. It aims to teach students to look beyond boundaries to
We train our students solve complex problems together with others, taking responsibility
for themselves, others and society.
to become critical
3. The way we design our education to achieve these goals is laid down in
global citizens
design principles that guide the design of education and learning and
who recognise teaching environments.
the importance of
EDUCATION AND TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
an open society Inter- and transdisciplinarity are an essential part of our education
from the undergraduate to the PhD stage, but education across
and a healthy planet.
disciplinary boundaries and using different methods does not come
naturally. We have therefore integrated this way of working into our
wide range of teacher and organisational development programmes.
26 27
LABOUR MARKET ORIENTATION
Our education enables students to qualify themselves for the labour STRATEGIC AMBITIONS
market. We give the labour market, the professional field and, more
broadly, society, a recognisable place in our education and develop and
provide that education in co-creation with external partners. For example, 4 By 2030, the principles of the Utrecht educational
model will be embedded in all our degree
we provide an activating and context-rich learning experience, stimulating
programmes.
community engagement, entrepreneurial spirit, innovativeness and
creativity in students and staff. This transdisciplinary approach will 5 AI developments will have been appropriately
incorporated into our education. Students and
be further embedded in regular curricula in the coming years.
teachers will know when and how AI can and
The Continuing Education we offer is also designed in alignment with
cannot be applied.
our vision of education.
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN EDUCATION
We prepare our students for a world in which artificial intelligence (AI)
plays an ever-increasing role in virtually all facets of their personal,
professional and social lives. Education focuses on digital literacy, ethical
awareness, self-regulation and personal leadership among students.
The role of teachers is changing because of AI. While it can be used to
facilitate student learning, it should not become a substitute for human
interaction and personal guidance. That would be contrary to our ambition
for an engaged community, with personal encounters and interaction as
key values. The developments and changes in this field are happening
at an incredibly rapid pace, so there is a great need to be adaptive and
continue to develop our education. We are developing an integrated
approach for this.
STUDENT SUCCESS AND WELL-BEING
Student success has a basis in good education and feasible programmes,
but is about more than just the student pass rate, since student well-being
is also an important factor. Students' discovery and development of their
personal and professional identity as ensured by our educational model
is enhanced by an adequate support and guidance chain, a rich social life
and low-threshold cultural and sports facilities for students.
Despite increasingly restricted financial and other frameworks and laws
and regulations, we continue to support and enable these facilities.
28 29
CHAPTER 6
Open
Science
We regard scientific knowledge as a public good
and a universal right. Open Science is based on
the public values of equality, justice, diversity
and transparency. These values are reflected
in the sharing of knowledge and research
results and in a transparent and participatory
research process. Sharing knowledge with
colleagues and with society is central to what
we do and think. We actively seek connection
and meaningful collaboration inside and outside
the university. We actively contribute to the
transition to an open academic world. We do
this by participating in national and international
networks and by focusing on a sustainable,
open knowledge infrastructure.
We have worked successfully in recent years through
an integrated, programme-based approach to
implement the principles of Open Science and build
support for the thinking through the themes of Open
Access2, FAIR3 data & software, Open Education,
Recognition & Rewards and Public Engagement.
OPEN ACCESS
Much has been achieved in the field of Open Access
in the recent period. Policies have been developed
and consolidated and the percentage of Open Access
articles is now over 95 per cent. To take the final
step, it is important for managers (and peers)
30 31
to further embrace Open Access publishing through the philosophy
of Recognition & Rewards.
FAIR DATA & SOFTWARE
It is essential for research data to be transparent and reproducible in
Open Science
order to ensure and maintain the integrity of research, especially with
digitalisation and AI playing an increasing role. Substantial steps have
is based on
already been taken with respect to FAIR data & software, but we are
the public values not there yet. There is still work to do in monitoring the open data and
software landscape and in developing recognition and rewards for tasks on
of equality, justice,
FAIR data and software. There are also still steps to be taken in embedding
diversity and the databoard and developing data and software policies. We ensure that
academics are well equipped to bring Open Science principles into research
transparency.
and education practice, and we facilitate the secure sharing and use of
research data and results.
Sharing knowledge
with colleagues OPEN EDUCATION
We are proud of our education and what it enables us to achieve, and we
and with society
want others to benefit too. Embedding the principles of Open Education
is central to what in the Utrecht education model will make our education more accessible
and enable it to reach a larger and more diverse target group. For example,
we do and think.
we can make more and more educational materials publicly available and
enable teachers to reuse and co-develop open educational materials and
open textbooks. We will involve external partners in the development,
innovation and provision of education. Transdisciplinary forms of
education such as community engaged learning and challenge-based
education allow students to learn directly from and contribute to real
issues in society.
RECOGNITION & REWARDS
The transition to Open Science is a fundamental change in academic
culture and practice. Acceptance, support and engagement in our
community is necessary for creating a working environment where the
principles of Open Science are the norm. Those principles are included in
the concept of Recognition & Rewards and we embed them in our thinking
32 33
(values), actions (behaviour) and organising (policies). Everyone's
contribution counts; an open discussion culture and caring for each other STRATEGIC AMBITIONS
are part of the Recognition & Rewards philosophy. We aim to internalise
this thinking so that it becomes part of our learning and working
environment. The Utrecht TRIPLE model is a tool for putting the principles 6 To facilitate making research data findable,
accessible, interoperable and reusable by others
into practice. Leadership and Team Spirit are central to Utrecht's TRIPLE
(FAIR), while safeguarding knowledge security,
policy for developing and valuing employees (see also Chapter 7).
we ensure that researchers have adequate
infrastructure, knowledge and facilities.
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
Sharing knowledge with society as a reciprocal process is an 7 In the coming period, we will ensure
inseparable part of Open Science. We share the activities, results and internalisation of the philosophy of Recognition
outputs of scientific research with a broad audience in various ways. & Rewards and the TRIPLE policy among all
This is basically a two-way street, with the aim of benefiting both parties. employees and guidance for managers on
We therefore invite people from outside the university to contribute to our their application.
education and research and look for opportunities for co-creation through
sustainable collaborations. Building and working in reciprocal partnerships
requires specific skills, including dealing with differing values, social
media reactions and public scrutiny, as well as monitoring scientific
independence. We support academics in developing and strengthening
the necessary competences and ensure safe, effective conditions
for public engagement.
OPEN WHERE POSSIBLE, CLOSED WHEN NECESSARY
We recognise that knowledge and information security are essential
prerequisites for information sharing. Open Science does not mean
unchecked sharing of all knowledge and data with everyone. Instead,
we implement clear guidelines and measures to enhance safe accessibility
and reusability. We provide adequate, strong data management and
training and support for teachers, researchers and students so that they
know how to handle information safely. In order to possess and maintain
control and authority over our own work and research data, we plan to
explore how to reduce our dependence on big tech in the coming period
(see also Chapter 10).
2 Open access makes research results from around the world accessible to everyone online for free.
Examples include scientific publications, research data and e-books.
3 FAIR data stands for research data that is Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable by others.
34 35
CHAPTER 7
Engaged
community
At Utrecht University, we strive for an engaged community of staff,
students, alumni and cooperation partners, in which togetherness,
equality and a common focus are central. This diverse and inclusive
community welcomes staff and students from all walks of life. In a
culture of academic freedom, all perspectives are heard, open and
honest conversations are held, and leadership is a core competency.
This is the foundation for the quality of our education and research;
it promotes resilience and it increases work and study enjoyment.
An engaged community is a source of strength and a prerequisite
for achieving our ambitions.
OPEN CULTURE
Looking at issues from multiple perspectives encourages nuanced and
critical reflection. Recognising and acknowledging everyone's input and
strengths promotes equality and inclusion. Yet we also sometimes face
challenges in our open culture, as differences in personal, social, economic
and cultural backgrounds, views and experiences make it difficult at times
to 'understand' each other properly. This even leads to polarisation in
some cases. Tensions can then arise around sensitive issues, leading to
feelings of insecurity among students and staff
SOCIAL SAFETY
Social safety is an important prerequisite for an engaged community.
High workloads and an informal culture combined with hierarchical
dependencies make us especially vulnerable in this respect. We have
developed policies and measures to enhance social safety. Much has
been done to raise awareness and remove barriers to reports and requests
for help. Accessible guidance and support offerings have also been
implemented for students and staff. In the coming period, we will focus
36 37
on more systematic monitoring of the effects of interventions cooperation, trust, exchange and mutual commitment. They are crucial
through the employee satisfaction monitor and risk inventories elements for the open culture we strive for and for the way we work,
and evaluations. Workload remains a key issue here. as individuals and together.
STUDENT WELL-BEING LEADERSHIP
As part of the graduate attributes, students learn to behave There are three dimensions to the Utrecht leadership profile: personal,
respectfully with an open, appreciative attitude towards others organisational and strategic leadership. Good leadership provides direction,
and their environment. They learn to listen attentively and carry motivates and inspires staff and students, and creates connection. In an
out open conversations with fellow students, teachers and society. open culture, personal leadership is a core competency for everyone.
Teachers and tutors are supported in monitoring student well- For managers, leadership additionally includes managing a team, fostering
being, guiding and coaching students and promoting their welfare, team spirit, ensuring support and connection with surrounding people,
within the framework of what is possible within education and and contributing to organisational goals. Managers pay attention to the
the role of a teacher. well-being and professional and personal development of their team
members, contributing to their sustained employability. We have
OPEN CONVERSATIONS invested heavily in leadership development and we will continue
In a free academic community, it is important that there is to do so.
always room for nuanced, open conversations, based on mutual
respect and listening to each other. We therefore encourage
an open culture of conversation. Staying in conversation, STRATEGIC AMBITIONS
even when there is friction, brings us closer together as a
community. Administrators, managers, staff and students are
responsible for this individually and also collectively. The desired 8 Equality, safety and inclusiveness remain the
culture includes giving and receiving feedback. Key concepts in pillars of our community and we strengthen
this are speaking out, discussing, making agreements and calling our culture by promoting open and honest
to account. This is not always easy, especially when it comes to conversations.
appropriate/inappropriate behaviour and good manners in the 9 We invest in leadership development and ensure
workplace. An effectively developed open conversation culture that all our managers develop strong leadership
helps prevent friction, contributes to productive collaborations skills.
and increases the quality and enjoyment of our work.
TEAM SPIRIT
Utrecht's TRIPLE employee development and rewards policy
applies to all university staff, both at individual and team level.
Team spirit and leadership are central to this. Team spirit is about
connecting individual and joint goals, and fostering collegiality,
38 39
CHAPTER 8
Focus on sustainable
transitions
Our planet is under pressure. We face complex
challenges around environment, health and
climate change. Ecological, social and economic
interests must be balanced. Utrecht University
has a great deal of knowledge about the health
of plants, animals, people (including young
people specifically, ecosystems and the planet,
about cultures and how they influence and
determine our dealings with nature, and about
how institutions can contribute to necessary
changes or transitions. Utrecht University sees
the climate crisis as an urgent problem and
takes responsibility for it from the perspective
of its social mission.
SUSTAINABILITY RESEARCH
We take a comprehensive approach and keep the
long-term prospects in mind. Both in the faculties
and in the strategic themes, research is conducted
and knowledge is developed from disciplinary,
multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches
in order to contribute to sustainable transitions.
For example, researchers are considering the future
of agriculture with the aim of creating a food system
that is more resilient to environmental and climate
change. Some researchers seek solutions in technical
developments, others focus on restoring ecological
balance, and still others look at governance
challenges. In doing so, we collaborate with many
40 41
community partners, locally, nationally and globally, and with landowners of Utrecht Science Park where more than 30,000 people live,
knowledge institutions such as the University of Applied Sciences work and study every day. We are working towards a green, climate-
Utrecht and the EWUU alliance. We also encourage awareness in resilient campus by increasing the sustainability of our buildings
the broadest sense of the word, not only among our own students and energy supply, greening our sites, restoring and enhancing local
and staff, but also outside, among the general public. biodiversity, reducing waste and improving animal welfare. In doing so,
we are investing in a green campus for students, university staff and
SUSTAINABILITY IN EDUCATION others.
Sustainability is increasingly making its presence felt in
education, aligning with the education model that explicitly CLIMATE-NEUTRAL BUSINESS OPERATIONS
includes community engagement. The university is training a We will achieve climate-neutral, circular business operations (carbon-
new generation: future leaders and drivers of the sustainable neutral, natural gas-free and zero-waste) in the shortest possible
transitions that can contribute to a healthy, liveable planet for time. However, we can't do that alone and we can't set the pace all by
future generations. We offer several majors, minors and electives ourselves. We are making our buildings more sustainable, generating
on sustainability and several degree programmes have structurally our own renewable energy and reducing our emissions through energy
embedded the topic of planetary health in their course offerings. conservation.
The aim is for every student to come into contact with the topic of
sustainability during their studies. With respect to our laboratories, we are pursuing LEAF certification.
This international programme assesses laboratories on sustainability
LIVING LABS based on aspects such as energy efficiency, waste reduction and reuse of
The campuses act as a living lab, a testing ground for sustainable raw materials. A specific concern is the energy consumption for large-
development in which we unite research, education and business scale research data storage and AI, which is associated with a considerable
operations. We mobilise researchers, students, managers and environmental impact and high costs. We help researchers manage their
community partners to experiment together and develop solutions data with the goal of not storing more data than necessary.
to sustainability issues in co-creation. By this means, we provide
students with learning experiences focused on solving real-world We encourage use of cycling, public transport and 'green mobility'.
problems. They take the knowledge and experience they gain in Our policy on long-distance travel also helps employees make astute
this process with them when they become active in considerations and choose the most sustainable option. We adhere to
the community and society after graduation. local, socially responsible purchasing and avoid wasting food, water and
raw materials. We burn or dump waste as little as possible and reuse
GREEN CAMPUS it wherever we can. In construction projects, we are economical with
In accordance with the motto 'practise what you teach', we also materials, for example by reusing materials and construction waste.
embed sustainability thinking in our own business operations.
For example, sustainability plays an important role in the MONITOR
management of our campuses and buildings. We manage and We want to be able to monitor our progress. The European Corporate
maintain dozens of buildings on three campuses and are co- Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) provides good guidance for
42 43
this. While the university is not accountable to the CSRD, it is a helpful
monitoring tool. We therefore take the CSRD guidelines as the basis for
our sustainability strategy. In the coming period, we will mainly focus
on the ecological domain.
STRATEGIC AMBITIONS
We mobilise
researchers,
10 We invest in a green campus by making buildings
more sustainable, greening sites and strengthening students,
local biodiversity.
managers and
11 We are committed to a carbon-neutral and zero-
waste university by 2030 and aim for a natural community partners
gas-free university by 2035.
to experiment
together and
develop solutions
to sustainability
issues in
co-creation.
44 45
CHAPTER 9 poses fundamental questions as it changes the way
knowledge is produced and shared. How do we ensure
Organisation
scientific integrity when AI takes on an increasing
role in knowledge production? How does AI affect the
At Utrecht University, everyone's contribution is recognised content of our education, our teaching activities, and
and rewarded. Work in education, research and business assessment in our education? How does AI affect the
operations4 all contributes to the organisation and our common way we function as a university organisation? We are
goals. Over 40 per cent of university staff work in business developing a vision for and an integrated approach
operations. Team spirit in Utrecht is therefore not just about to harnessing the potential of AI, taking into account
cooperation between academics, but about cooperation between potential risks.
colleagues throughout the organisation. This chapter describes a
number of important developments in business operations that will We want to maintain control over our own work
require a lot of effort in the coming years. These developments imply and our own data. That is why we want to reduce
change and are relevant to and impact the entire university. our dependence on big tech in the coming years.
Pursuing greater digital sovereignty is a theme in
BEING A GOOD EMPLOYER our digitalisation strategy and part of our architecture
The university wants to be and remain an attractive employer for local principles. We are working with industry partners
and international employees, providing an environment where people to find European alternatives to these technologies.
enjoy their work, where everyone's contribution is recognised, and where In European tenders, public values are an unconditional
there is room for everyone's talent. We believe that providing space for part of the call for tender.
and attention to personal and professional development is one of the core
aspects of being a good employer. Collaboration and team spirit are the BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
guiding principle in our work, stimulated and inspired by leadership at The five-year Asturias programme will replace our
all levels. Team spirit also means individuals committing to the bigger business system for the administration of human
picture, for example through participation in employee and student resources, finance, procurement, education and
representation. We take good care of our people and invest in employee research. We make a virtue of necessity and use
well-being. A safe social climate is the foundation for this. The principles the opportunity to make our services more efficient
of being a good employer are anchored in the Recognition & Rewards and effective. Cooperation will be better facilitated
policy, which we will further embed in all our HR processes in by simplifying and unifying the administrative
the coming years. organisation and by standardising processes wherever
possible. The processes and systems in scope affect
DIGITALISATION AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE everyone within the university. This makes this
Digitalisation and artificial intelligence (AI) affect just about everything programme not only a major technical change,
we do - as citizens, as academics, as institutions and in our education, but also an organisational one.
research and business operations. AI offers opportunities, but also
46 47
FINANCIAL STRATEGY
The university is financially healthy and robust, but accumulating STRATEGIC AMBITIONS
developments such as autonomous cost increases for staff and equipment,
declining student intake and a shrinking government grant will force
us to make financial adjustments in the coming years. We cannot 12 We continue to work purposefully towards optimal
avoid austerity measures and cuts to education, research and business digitalisation, increase our digital sovereignty
operations. Accordingly, measures will be taken at department and faculty and exploit the opportunities of AI in education,
level, as well as at the university level. For example, we are reassessing research and business operations.
the efficiency of our educational offerings, ensuring efficient educational 13 We simplify and standardise our administrative
logistics, making choices regarding investment in large-scale research business processes and their digitalisation, making
infrastructure and pursuing rationalisation of the IT landscape. We want to service delivery more efficient and effective, and
become less dependent on input funding based on student intake and we collaboration easier.
also want to be able to continue to invest. We are therefore committed to a 14 We are making our financial strategy more
more robust balance between the government grant and income from other sustainable and reviewing our property strategy
sources, such as contract education and research, and research grants from in line with this.
within Europe and beyond.
PROPERTY
The university has a major real estate task, entailing many renovation
and new construction projects that need to be carried out in the coming
years. This presents opportunities to make our buildings more sustainable
and reduce our energy consumption, but it also requires large investments
over a long period of time. In the coming period, we will reassess our
property strategy so that we can carry out the task within the shrinking
resource framework. The university will continue to invest in real estate
and a green campus over the next 15 years, but we are downsizing
our real estate portfolio, reducing square metres and making better use
of the available space. This will affect the pace, phasing and level of
ambition of the projects we undertake.
4 Business operations domains cover the direct and indirect support of education, research, impact and patient
care, as well as Human Resources, Information Provision & IT, administrative Organisation, Finance, General
Affairs (e.g. legal affairs and management support), Communication and Housing & Facility Management
(classically referred to as PIOFACH or variations thereof). Some positions and/or work are at the intersection
of education, research and business operations.
48 49
CHAPTER 10 Work plans will be drawn up both at the university
level and at the level of faculties and departments,
Creation and implementation
setting out how and at what pace the strategy,
of Strategic Plan 2030 and in particular its ambitions, will be implemented.
Faculties and departments can, where necessary and
To update our institutional strategy, a working group commissioned possible and in coordination with the Executive Board,
by the Executive Board and the deans collected input from staff, apply their own emphases and determine their
students, alumni, and other internal and external stakeholders own pace.
between October 2024 and March 2025. The working group did this
in coordination with a focus group. Colleagues and students in each The strategic ambitions will provide direction for
faculty and department were able to provide input. This input was the next five years. Where possible, they will be
mostly collected through existing consultations and forums, including developed into result-oriented project or programme
the faculty councils, and by using a questionnaire and sometimes plans with solid outcomes that are also measurable,
additional activities. where possible.
In addition, discussions were held with cross-component groups such as MONITORING
Using portfolio management, we will monitor
students, international staff, early career academics, university professors
the implementation and achievement of ambitions
and external stakeholders. Analysis of the input gathered shows relatively
in projects and programmes in the coming years.
high consensus on who we are, what we stand for, what our direction
Three times a year, progress will be reviewed and
should be and remain, and what internal and external developments are
discussed by the Board, deans and directors using
important in the coming period. This reinforces our decision to continue
the portfolio monitor.
the current strategy and strengthen it.The input gathered was cyclically
processed into a number of draft versions that were discussed with and
Twice a year, the Executive Board will discuss progress
by the working group, the focus group, the university council, directors,
and achievements with the University Council and
deans and the Supervisory Board. The final draft version was successively
the Supervisory Board on the basis of the management
adopted by the Executive Board, received approval from the University
agenda and report (part of the budget and annual
Council and was approved by the Supervisory Board.
report, respectively).
IMPLEMENTATION
We applied greater focus by means of more targeted choices and refining Faculty boards will discuss their progress and
our priorities. The result is relatively few (14) strategic ambitions. We want achievements with the Faculty Council and the
to do what is important to perpetuate our strong position. And what we do, Executive Board twice a year on the basis of
we want to do well. their work plans.
50 51
The Strategic Plan 2030
can also be found at
UU.NL/EN/SP2030